---
title: "The Speed of Thought: Illusion of Separation"
categories: "blog"
tags: "social-physics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
Sociophysical systems exhibit a wide array of behavior that can be modeled with physics metaphors. From atop a ziggurat in Sumeria or Mesoamerica, some of the basic sociophysical mechanics emerge visibly as patterns of interaction in crowds. The movement of people in a mall have a temperature, as they do at wider geographic scales. Density and temperature correlate with interest and intent. Moreover, the temperature and density of the group yields more connections and a faster rate of information diffusion."
---

#### &#x2605; Illusion of Separation &#x2605; [Sociophysical Postulates I -- XI](/posts/2017-10-30-speed-of-thought-sociophysical-postulates-1-to-11.html) &#x2605;

## First, a Riddle:

#### What's Both Hot and Cold,

#### Vibrates and Resonates,

#### And Is Made Out Of At Least Two Kinds of Stars?

## [What Is The Speed of Thought Today?](#what-is-the-speed-of-thought-today)

#### &#x03D5; [Sociophysical Mechanics Are Now Predominantly Virtualized](#sociophysical-mechanics-are-now-predominantly-virtualized)

#### &#x03D5; [Memes, Datums and Iota](#memes-datums-and-iota)

#### &#x03D5; [Holons and the Holonome](#holons-and-the-holonome)

## [Temperature, Density, Waves and Spectra](#temperature-density-waves-and-spectra)

#### &#x03D5; [The Speed of Sound](#the-speed-of-sound)

#### &#x03D5; [Cultural Reverberation](#cultural-reverberation)

#### &#x03D5; [The Economics of Information](#the-economics-of-information)

## [Epistemological Petrification and Transfiguration](#epistemological-petrification-and-transfiguration)

#### &#x03D5; [With 2.0, Knowledge Upgrades Its TTL](#with-2-0-knowledge-upgrades-its-ttl)

#### &#x03D5; [An Individual's Focus is the 21st Century Commodity](#an-individuals-focus-is-the-21st-century-commodity)

#### &#x03D5; [The Semiotic Aggregate of Thought](#the-semiotic-aggregate-of-thought)

#### &#x03D5; [Environmental Stimuli and Cultural Universals Shape The Aggregate of Thought](#environmental-stimuli-and-cultural-universals-shape-the-aggregate-of-thought)

## [The Eudaimonic Symphony of Being Humanity](#the-eudaimonic-symphony-of-being-humanity)

#### &#x03D5; [The Beginning of the End for the Illusion of Separation?](#the-beginning-of-the-end-for-the-illusion-of-separation)

#### &#x03D5; [The Singularity is a Sociophysical Black Hole](#the-singularity-is-a-sociophysical-black-hole)

## [The Other Side of the S-Curve](#the-other-side-of-the-s-curve)

#### &#x03D5; [Open and Closed Systems](#open-and-closed-systems)

#### &#x03D5; [Uncountably Infinite Dimensional, Convoluted Non-Linear Systems](#uncountably-infinite-dimensional-convoluted-non-linear-systems)

## [Phase Change in Physical and Aphysical Topologies](#phase-change-in-physical-and-aphysical-topologies)

#### &#x03D5; [Complexity in Sociophysical Systems Creates Vastly Many Phases](#complexity-in-sociophysical-systems-creates-vastly-many-phases)

#### &#x03D5; [Demand-Side Information Economics](#demand-side-information-economics)

#### &#x03D5; [Does The Commoditization of Attention Extend to Automated Agents?](#does-the-commoditization-of-attention-extend-to-automated-agents)

## [Spectral Decoherence in the Noosphere](#spectra-decoherence-in-the-noosphere)

#### &#x03D5; [The Structure of the Noosphere](#the-structure-of-the-noosphere)

#### &#x03D5; [Ontologies in Data Science](#ontologies-in-data-science)

#### &#x03D5; [Neighborhoods in Physical and Aphysical Topologies](#neighborhoods-in-physical-and-aphysical-topologies)

#### &#x03D5; [What is Anscombe's Paradox, Watson](#what-is-anscombes-paradox-watson)

#### &#x03D5; [The 15th Century European Noosphere](#the-15th-century-european-noosphere)

#### &#x03D5; [The Obliteration of Physical Constraints on Sociophysical Phenomena](#the-obliteration-of-physical-constraints-on-sociophysical-phenomena)

#### &#x03D5; [Which One Of These Is *The* Fake News Article?](#which-one-of-these-is-the-fake-news-article)

## [A Tall Glass of Nihilism to Toast Your Postmodernist Wasteland](#a-tall-glass-of-nihilism-to-toast-your-postmodernist-wasteland)

#### &#x03D5; [Spectral Decoherence Breaks the Economics of Content Creation](#spectral-decoherence-breaks-the-economics-of-content-creation)

#### &#x03D5; [Semiotic Harmonics and Social Engineering](#semiotic-harmonics-and-social-engineering)

#### &#x03D5; [Information Warfare in Our Brave New World](#information-warfare-in-our-brave-new-world)

## [Shangri-La Or Bust](#shangri-la-or-bust)

#### &#x03D5; [The Ablation of Causality](#the-ablation-of-causality)

> "Posthumous men — I, for example — are understood worse than timely
> ones, but heard better.  More precisely: we are never understood —
> hence our authority." — *Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols*

<a name="what-is-the-speed-of-thought-today" />

# [What Is The Speed of Thought Today?](#what-is-the-speed-of-thought-today)

Impulses between neurons can travel over 100 meters per second.
Instead, consider the speed at which a thought can travel across the
world and how has it changed over time. After all, our individual
thoughts lead to words and actions, which ripple through social
networks both natural and virtual. Throughout history, this velocity
of information has steadily increased until it exploded in the 19th
century with the telegraph.

<a name="sociophysical-mechanics-are-now-predominantly-virtualized" />

### [Sociophysical Mechanics Are Now Predominantly Virtualized](#sociophysical-mechanics-are-now-predominantly-virtualized)

While communication was bound to physical interactions, a primarily
physical set of mechanics dominated social physics and the movement of
information. Today, the convergence of virtual communication channels
like social media causes physical mechanics to recede. From here,
social physics becomes dominated by metaphysical modes of action,
where propagation becomes dependent on the geometric mechanics of
information. So, the geometry and structure of the information itself
as it fits into its contexts determines its motion along virtual
channels.

<a name="memes-datums-and-iota" />

### [Memes, Datums and Iota](#memes-datums-and-iota)

In this series, meme refers to something between a unit of cultural
information and a unit of its transmission. A datum, which can
represent a meme, refers to a structure of information, dependent from
and potentially linked to its instantiations in various networks and
spaces. To distinguish it from common connotations of data, it's
pluralized here as datums. Here, iota refers to datum instantiations
in spaces and networks, where each iota is a singleton type.

#### The Tao that can be spoken is not the eternal Tao

#### The name that can be named is not the eternal name

#### The nameless is the origin of Heaven and Earth

#### The named is the mother of myriad things

It is an interesting exercise to think of datums -- units of
information -- as being particles and waves with spectra, similar to
Einstein's eureka of light as both a particle and a wave. In this
manner, datums can be imagined as myriad types of molecules, each and
all vibrating with faint deviation to characteristic modes. They are
molecular in the sense that they are composed from more elemental
datums. The nature of information and its wide speciation expand datum
variety in tetrationally intricate ways. Internalization of this
endless variety of information is what it takes to truly determine
anything about social physics, though most representations map
sparsely to the range of possibilities. Memes are like monoidal,
higher types of datums.

#### [Tetration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tetration) on the Complex Plane

![Tetration on the Complex Plane](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/tetration.jpg)

<a name="holons-and-the-holonome" />

### [Holons and the Holonome](#holons-and-the-holonome)

[Holons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holon_(philosophy)) are a
useful concept for structuring information. All possible prototypical
structures for information can be combinatorially enumerated using
category theory. A fitting name for this is the holonome and, ideally,
its enumeration would be countably infinite. Understanding this
holonome and developing a structure of information that resolves
duality and defines all possilble metaphysical forms drives my passion
for learning category theory. Holons correspond to the concept of
[lenses and prisms from functional programming](/posts/2016-04-30-lambda-fu-powerup-lenses-prisms-and-optics-with-swift.html). The
holonome is unique. There is only one and it encompasses all possible
structures of holons, without regard for their contents.

<a name="temperature-density-waves-and-spectra" />

# [Temperature, Density, Waves and Spectra](#temperature-density-waves-and-spectra)

Sociophysical systems exhibit a wide array of behavior that can be
modeled with physics metaphors. From atop a ziggurat in Sumeria or
Mesoamerica, some of the basic sociophysical mechanics emerge visibily
as patterns of interaction in crowds. The movement of people in a mall
have a temperature, as they do at wider geographic scales. Density and
temperature correlate with interest and intent. Moreover, the
temperature and density of the group yields more connections and a
faster rate of information diffusion.

#### A Change In Elevation Results in a Change in Perspective. Here, It Is A Dimensional Reduction

![Teotihuacan](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/teotihuacan.jpg)

#### What's Both Hot and Cold,

#### Vibrates and Resonates,

#### And Is Made Out Of At Least Two Kinds of Stars?

The answer to the riddle above is people, or sociophysical networks,
which have spaces of varying topology: both physical spaces and more
logical spaces. In one we are literally made of star dust and, in the
other, star-like images emerge from graphs.

<a name="the-speed-of-sound" />

### [The Speed of Sound](#the-speed-of-sound)

Extending the parallels to temperature and density yields a metaphor
to the speed of sound. It describes the potential speed at which
general information could travel. This can't effectively model
diffusion of specific pieces of information, since people exhibit
choice over the information they propagate. It instead assumes
temperature and density correlate with higher potential for
interactions to occur. As you geographically zoom out, the potential
speed of information diffusion becomes more closely coupled to
temperature and population density.

<a name="cultural-reverberation" />

### [Cultural Reverberation](#cultural-reverberation)

From ancient times through the telegraph, all information flux was
bound to physical contact. Population growth itself gradually
accelerated both information accumulation and flux. Writing
established information permanence. Navigation and ship-building
increased the maximum range for information to spread, per degree of
exchange. Economics incentivized management of information to predict
trade and resource trends. Ancient people may have assumed the network
effect: as population increased, so did the likelihood of
technological innovations and thus, information might begin to spread
faster than it was driven by population density alone.

<a name="the-economics-of-information" />

### [The Economics of Information](#the-economics-of-information)

Wherever there is supply and demand, you'll find economic dynamics and
information is no exception. While no one in Germany counted all the
Bibles in 1350, the notion that documents are tangible and countable
changes how people react to perceived supply and demand. Unwritten
records are much harder to pin down, but what's the use in bartering
for a juicy piece of gossip if you don't get it early on? Information
conveys power when it is scarce, even when it may not be true. When a
rumor is held tightly, it is easier to trace. While we never poll our
friends to tally up an information histogram, our mind is always
making inferences because the distribution of information usually
tells us more than the info itself. Small talk may be all about the
weather and the Yankees, but it informs us about who talks to who and
more.

<a name="epistemological-petrification-and-transfiguration" />

# [Epistemological Petrification and Transfiguration](#epistemological-petrification-and-transfiguration)

Macroscopically, technology's effect on information diffusion produced
viral sociocultural transformation, often with political or economic
consequences. Writing developed once and never forgotten. Religious
systems petrified on exposure to clay tablets, gradually locking these
ephemeral systems of thought into place. The printing press
democratized writing, effectively seizing it from the priest class by
undermining the economics that enabled tight control.

Prior to the printing press, the narrow spectrum of available info
fluctuated perpetually. Rationalism wasn't even a fleeting dream at
this point. All written records were copied manually. Accumulation of
writing was roughly bounded by the literate population, a kind of
abstract membrane whose size also loosely correlated to a population's
permeability to written records. Copies more numerous and accessible
resulted in more frequently amplified information. If the work wasn't
financed by the church or state, the information's TTL drastically
plummeted.

<a name="with-2-0-knowledge-upgrades-its-ttl" />

### [With 2.0, Knowledge Upgrades Its TTL](#with-2-0-knowledge-upgrades-its-ttl)

Information and knowledge have time-to-live values, similar to the IP
protocol's TTL value, which is the number of times a packet will be
retransmitted by routers without final delivery. For knowledge, this
TTL is related to the number of probable hosts or physical
representations and the probabilities of events where such
representations are retransmitted. As time continues onwards, these
probabilities fluctuate, as do the number of retained hosts, iota and
datum representations. In some cases, when information itself is lost,
it can be later reconstituted and repersisted from its parts.

People respond in different ways to datums, arising from traits such
as virility or vociferousness. These aspects drive expansion in the
datums' lineage of iota, which are seeded into hosts. The more
expansive the distribution of iota and the more frequently they're
expressed in communication, the higher their degree of consensus among
hosts. Those datums linked to natural phenomena or semiotically
connected to cultural universals are innately amplified by being in
phase with common sensory stimuli in the human condition.

<a name="an-individuals-focus-is-the-21st-century-commodity" />

### [An Individual's Focus is the 21st Century Commodity](#an-individuals-focus-is-the-21st-century-commodity)

In parallel to Zipf's distribution for a lexicon's frequency of word
usage, there is a distribution that describes the frequency of
thoughts including semiotic signifiers. It's data can't be directly
sampled, and like so many other aspects of social physics, this
distribution is nearly impossible to quantify. It has always been
important to understand, but in the 21st century, where your attention
has been commoditized, there is nothing more important than
understanding what consumes our thought.

#### Zipf's Distribution Plots the Frequency of Words As They Appear In A Language's Literature

![Zipf's Distribution](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/zipf-wiki.png)

<a name="the-semiotic-aggregate-of-thought" />

### [The Semiotic Aggregate of Thought](#the-semiotic-aggregate-of-thought)

What semiotic signifiers does an individual spend the most time
thinking about? How can these signs be grouped? If we zoom out to
various scales of society, how does this distribution change? Why?
What do the subtle variations between Zipf's distribution for
languages tell us? Aren't they slightly different organizations of
morphemic pointers to the same set of semiotic signs? What always
floats to the top of Zipf's distribution for any given language? Above
all else, our shared cultural universals sift to the top.

<a name="environmental-stimuli-and-cultural-universals-shape-the-aggregate-of-thought" />

### [Environmental Stimuli and Cultural Universals Shape The Aggregate of Thought](#environmental-stimuli-and-cultural-universals-shape-the-aggregate-of-thought)

The Zipf's distribution for any given language is simply a reflection
of the immeasurable semiotic distribution mentioned above. The
semiotic aggregate of human focus is predominantly derived from ideas
constructed from cultural universals. The cultural universals float to
the top because they arise from human needs and the intricacies of
human interactions. What happens to this distribution when technology
changes our human needs? Is there ever such a thing as a new cultural
universal? It must be so, but how?

Writing and subsequent innovations dramatically expanded the spectrum
and TTL of information. Before there were written records, reflections
of the information only persisted if they were retransmitted faster
than they decayed. Signal could be quickly and easily drowned out by
encouraging the prioritization of competing datum.

After writing emerged, suppression of information required the
location and destruction of all physical instantiations of that
information. To purge any records with certainty meant locating them
without raising alarm. After the printing press, both the copies of
information and the frequency by which records were published
increased by orders of magnitude, requiring strict control over the
production of physical iota.

<a name="the-eudaimonic-symphony-of-being-humanity" />

# [The Eudaimonic Symphony of Being Humanity](#the-eudaimonic-symphony-of-being-humanity)

Each major innovation opened a new movement in our impressionistic
arrangement of cross-cultural collaboration. Each led to its own
gradual crescendo as it reverberated across the world, inspiring a
chorus where each new voice was increasingly pronounced, distinct and
memorable. Each of these movements was a spontaneous contribution
forwards in information mechanics, dynamics and expression. This
progression offered many conceivable paths as it moved us towards an
increasingly singular zenith. Our discernment and apprehension of the
destination, the journey, and each macroscopic fragment can be
consumated by dissecting the fundamentals of communication and
information.

![Eudaimonia](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/eudaimonia.jpg)

<a name="the-beginning-of-the-end-for-the-illusion-of-separation" />

### [The Beginning of the End for the Illusion of Separation?](#the-beginning-of-the-end-for-the-illusion-of-separation)

Without intelligent life, the universe might never manifest awareness
of itself. Humanity has reached a transitionary period where
communication networks allow our ideas to pollinate maximally. This
preeminant phase symbolically represents humanity's awareness of
ourselves driven to tantalizing exhaustion as it ripens in fullness.
Our understanding of ourselves reaches a state of entirety to a degree
of significance the magnitude of which humanity may only ever witness
once.

The same confluence of phenomena to usher in this
[eudaimonic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eudaimonia) actualization
of being humanity sows the seeds of tectonic shifts in sociophysical
mechanics. While the set of rules for interaction remains unchanged,
the observed phenomena and dynamics diverge. When the Big Bang
transitioned through inflation, the laws of physics dominating
interactions remained constant. The rules didn't change, but unique
dynamics emerged because the specifics of the system caused various
rules to be more significant, resulting in some behaviors that were
never seen again.

![Danger, Will Robinson](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/danger-will-robinson.webp)

<a name="the-singularity-is-a-sociophysical-black-hole" />

### [The Singularity is a Sociophysical Black Hole](#the-singularity-is-a-sociophysical-black-hole)

Sociophysical mechanics weave together to influence social interaction
and how people think about it. Technological innovation disrupts how
these mechanics interlace, resulting in paradigm shifts when it occurs
to a significant enough degree. Which is worse: the obviously seismic
paradigm shifts or those we barely notice shifting beneath our feet?

We are seeing some of these effects now. For example, possible
election manipulation and -- holy shit -- did anyone log into social
media in 2016? Information amplification is rampant. Manipulation of
information is as old as predator and prey, except today the fabric of
information and communication is shifting. It's like a space that's
bending and folding into itself. Most of us still see everything as
though we are within that space, but a few of us are adapting faster
than others. Population density and broadband access profoundly impact
how these shifts unfold.

<a name="the-other-side-of-the-s-curve" />

# [The Other Side of the S-Curve](#the-other-side-of-the-s-curve)

There are reasons that the S-Curve emerges where it does. It opens
with exponential growth and, like the unfortunate, ironic
perfectionist, all it knows is overachievement and blue skies. Then,
suddenly, this curve's distribution hits a wall: it's a negative
externality. Yet, since it's never known life outside the petri dish,
this curve decides to wish upon agar. Unfortunately, the s-curve's
fate is sealed and the system is just as closed as the petri dish.

#### Comparison of Sigmoid Curves

![The Sigmoid Curve](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/scurve.png)

<a name="open-and-closed-systems" />

### [Open and Closed Systems](#open-and-closed-systems)

Systems can be open, closed or various combinations of both. Each has
its own idiosyncracies. A system that will end as closed often looks
just like an open system that might never be closed. If you aren't
aware of what caused the system to be closed, you would expect trends
to continue indefinitely.

<a name="closed-systems-and-equivalent-exchange-of-energy" />

### [Closed Systems and Equivalent Exchange of Energy](#closed-systems-and-equivalent-exchange-of-energy)

If you try to view the selection of public stocks as open, then you
start with a good index and familiarize its stocks one by one,
gradually learning to trade. If you instead choose to view the
selection of stocks as closed, then, like Warren Buffet, you might
grab a copy of Moody's and memorize the available stocks, one by
one. When you model the wider financial markets as a closed system,
then every trade effectively results in an equal and opposite shift in
value from one asset to another. Capital enters and leaves the system,
thus equivalent exchange is not perfectly preserved. However, in the
financial system, money is a kind of energy. Just like forms of energy
in sociophyscial systems, complex non-linear dynamics emerge when this
equivalent exchange is not maintained.

> Sorry Communists. Money is real and never goes away. In the future,
> ENERGY IS CURRECY. Literal physical energy itself becomes
> currency. There is no society neither bound by resources, nor the
> concepts of currency and economics. You have been deluded.

<a name="uncountably-infinite-dimensional-convoluted-non-linear-systems" />

### [Uncountably Infinite Dimensional, Convoluted Non-Linear Systems](#uncountably-infinite-dimensional-convoluted-non-linear-systems)

The noosphere, our shared information ecosystem, is a non-linear
system that combines the traits of open and closed along various
measures. It's both open and closed in very complicated ways. The
transition from open to closed leads to divergent phenomenological
implications. The second part of this series discusses how autonomous
agents in sociophysical systems mitigate and hedge against the
system's complexity by amplifying information and making decisions
based on perceived beliefs. The complexity of the system contributes
to its own dynamics.

<a name="non-linear-systems-convexity-and-concavity-antifragility-and-fragility" />

### [Non-Linear Systems: Convexity and Concavity, Antifragility and Fragility](#non-linear-systems-convexity-and-concavity-antifragility-and-fragility)

When your system is convoluted, infinitely dimensional and non-linear,
it reacts with an incomprehensible set of dynamics that are impossible
to differentiate and dilineate. There are critical categories of
metrics that can help simplify the system. Around clusters of values
for these groups of metrics, there are boundaries. Stay in the
boundary, the system is more stable. Move outside of a cluster's
boundary region, the system will begin to transition chaotically. If
you're lucky, it will do so with some degree of predictability.
Transitioning into and out of these boundaries can describe a phase
change, though these are phases composed of phase metatypes.

Non-linear systems can be more succinctly described in terms of
transitions between concave and convex regions. Depending on their
current values, systems exhibit degrees of fragility and
antifragility. These concepts have been studied at length by
[Nassim Taleb](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S3REdLZ8Xis&t=4s), an
author I just discovered and can't recommend enough. Fragile regions
are more likely to move away from local minima or maxima, whereas
antifragile regions exhibit robust systems of feedback loops to
stabalize the system, some emerging from agents who prefer a simpler,
more stable system. The more anti-fragile the system is, the more
likely it is to gain value from disorder. In high dimensional spaces,
both the kinds of concavity and convexity and the kinds of minima and
maxima exhibit many more facets of variation than can be seen in
linear systems of two or more variables.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YhwEmS3-tf8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Imagine a group of metrics including information velocity and social
graph connectedness as forming a category. As long as the velocity nor
the connectedness skyrockets, the system remains stable and prefers
not to undergo transformations that it has never exhibited. It's
obvious this category of metrics is rapidly evolving today, so this an
easily-parsed example of chaotic phase transitions in non-linear
systems. For sociophysical systems, these kinds of phase transitions
are myriad.

![Einstein and Imagination](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/einstein.jpg)

<a name="phase-change-in-physical-and-aphysical-topologies" />

# [Phase Change in Physical and Aphysical Topologies](#phase-change-in-physical-and-aphysical-topologies)

Superconduction is another physical phenomenon for which we can
imagine significant sociophysical metaphors. Superconduction describes
systems of descreasing thermal energy whose electrical resistance
suddenly becomes zero. It is a type of phase change which is not
linearly bound to the temperature; it is the sudden shift to zero
electrical resistence. Phases are not a primarily physical
phenonenon. They are an idea in math, where systems operate in a
functionally distinct way when their constituents individually satisfy
some properties over increasingly large spatial regions.

<a name="complexity-in-sociophysical-systems-creates-vastly-many-phases" />

### [Complexity in Sociophysical Systems Creates Vastly Many Phases](#complexity-in-sociophysical-systems-creates-vastly-many-phases)

Again, sociophysical systems experience phase changes, just like
particle systems. Reduce the physical space's limits on velocity and
distance, then increase the quantity of information flux and suddenly
a vastly different set of principles applies. Models for sociophysical
systems with physical information transfer still apply and the same
set of mechanics apply, but are permuted in the way these mechanics
present themselves. This includes mechanics we may have never observed
before. Systems where the majority of interactions take place on
virtual channels utilize mechanics that cause the nature of
information itself to dominate the interactions. This leads to what
can be described as the geometric mechanics of information systems.

<a name="demand-side-information-economics" />

### [Demand-Side Information Economics](#demand-side-information-economics)

As our world becomes more closed in various ways and as our
communication infrastructure encourages sociophyscial phase changes,
different sets of principles become foundational in modeling the
system. When population growth and virtual channels cause the world to
create vastly more information than could ever be consumed by humans,
this also presents a series of phase changes because the sheer volume
of information in itself changes how people behave. When we reach a
knowledge plateau like the Singularity, the simple presence of a
boundary on new knowledge means that people operate differently based
on the assumption that no level of effort produces significantly novel
knowledge.

In these high-volume, high-flux sociophysical systems, information
economics becomes demand-side, where the abundance in supply reduces
the significance of qualitative differences in information. When
people generally decide this, in itself, changes their decision-making
and information-filtering processes, it results a kind of phase
change.

<a name="does-the-commoditization-of-attention-extend-to-automated-agents" />

### [Does The Commoditization of Attention Extend to Automated Agents?](#does-the-commoditization-of-attention-extend-to-automated-agents)

Again, the 21st century commodity is the individuals attention, but
that paradigm only lasts as long as human attention is considered
"special" in some way. Today, an individual's information consumption
habits are valuable because human consumers have money. What is the
difference between human attention as a commodity and the attention of
automated agents? How do the demand-side information economics change
if people simply become biological liabilities, consuming energy and
resources to sustain their own needless hedonism? How do these
demand-side trends respond to rampant nihilism?

<a name="spectra-decoherence-in-the-noosphere" />

# [Spectral Decoherence in the Noosphere](#spectra-decoherence-in-the-noosphere)

Information converges in different ways at various scales along
various dimensions, which include spatial, aggregate and
graph-oriented dimensions. Information can also adopt divergent
dynamics.

<a name="the-structure-of-the-noosphere" />

### [The Structure of the Noosphere](#the-structure-of-the-noosphere)

Analogous to the biosphere, the
[noosphere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noosphere) represents the
sum of all information. It includes everything that anyone might think
someone could think, as well as the metaontological expansion of
everything contained within itself. Here, metaontology refers to a
categorical deconstruction of ontologies. The noosphere is distinct
from, but similar in nature to
[Abraxas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraxas) because that entity
includes everything that was, is or could be, whether it has existed,
could exist or could be comprehended by man. The noosphere is
unimaginably infinite, but can be approximated via data science,
knowledge representation and ontological engineering. For the purposes
of understanding social physics, the noosphere can be considered to be
something between what can be modeled by data science and the more
philosophical definition above.

<a name="ontologies-in-data-science" />

### [Ontologies in Data Science](#ontologies-in-data-science)

This paper geographically dilineates search recommendations with an
ontological model of location types as they are functionally coupled
to weather status. For example, the algorithm will not prioritize a
local drive-in theater on a rainy day because its ontological model of
location types enables it make more contextually relevant
inferences. Similarly, algorithms used by Facebook and Google might
compare a user's recent and total activity against ontological models
to recommend results relevant to that user's interests. Below is a
subset of the
[Gene Ontology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_ontology), used in
bioinformatics to help identify networks of functionally related
genes.

#### A Subset of the Gene Ontology via ["Implementation of a Geo-Semantic App by Combining Mobile User Contexts with Geographic Ontologies"](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/263992616_Implementation_of_a_Geo-Semantic_App_by_Combining_Mobile_User_Contexts_with_Geographic_Ontologies)

![Gene Ontology](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/gene-ontology.png)

<a name="neighborhoods-in-physical-and-aphysical-topologies" />

### [Neighborhoods in Physical and Aphysical Topologies](#neighborhoods-in-physical-and-aphysical-topologies)

Neighborhoods of the social graph can be generated via various
mathematic metrics. The term degrees of separation is one such
metric. At a distance of six edges, the neighborhood should encompass
all nodes in the social graph. Physical distance is another metric
that can filter the social graph into a neighborhood. Given any
neighborhood, you can generate a subgraph of the noosphere
representing the totality of information for that set of people. As
you zoom out to wider neighborhoods, each noosphere generated for the
neighborhood varies less as the chosen metric expands. This phenomenon
is generally more apparent for knowledge than for information, where
knowledge is defined as information above some threshold of universal
significance.

<a name="what-is-anscombes-paradox-watson" />

### [What is Anscombe's Paradox, Watson](#what-is-anscombes-paradox-watson)

As the total noosphere expands over time, it masks rapidly increasing
variance between noospheres generated by social subgraphs. Generally,
comparing smaller neighborhoods yields increasing variance in their
noospheres, the generated information graphs. Modernism and convergent
communication infrastructure causes this variance (to become more
pronounced) over time. This phenomenon of increasing variance at
smaller scales is like a variant of Anscombe's Paradox applied to
graphs. This dissonance in local information is essentially
[spectral decoherence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coherence_(signal_processing)).

#### [Anscombe's Quartet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anscombe%27s_quartet), Four Sets With Identical Aggregates

![Picture of anscombe's quartet](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/anscombes-quartet.jpg)

<a name="the-15th-century-european-noosphere" />

### [The 15th Century European Noosphere](#the-15th-century-european-noosphere)

Imagine the noosphere for 15th century European society, where almost
every literate person has only read from a single book: the Bible. As
you zoom out, the effects of that literary work on the information
graph become pronounced. At that time, the knowledge graph is sadly
empty and the scope of shared knowledge is minimal, compared to what
is instilled by today's public education system. Before the modern
era, adjacent neighborhoods would correlate with highly similar
generated noospheres. They would have very high spectral coherence.

<a name="the-obliteration-of-physical-constraints-on-sociophysical-phenomena" />

### [The Obliteration of Physical Constraints on Sociophysical Phenomena](#the-obliteration-of-physical-constraints-on-sociophysical-phenomena)

Prior to internet, subcultures were contained within geographic areas
and displayed heightened evolution in urban areas. Areas with lower
population density displayed diminished cultural evolution. Where
before, evolution in culture required more time to proliferate, we
have obliterated the physical constraints on information
transmission. The speed of a thought as it traverses social networks
is almost meaningless because of the predominantly aphysical nature of
communication. Awareness of this phenomenon itself causes a phase
change in social behavior, which alters the design of mass
communication.

<a name="which-one-of-these-is-the-fake-news-article" />

### [Which One Of These Is *The* Fake News Article?](#which-one-of-these-is-the-fake-news-article)

This has massive ramifications for the design of communication,
particularly in how one can use a language of imagery and be confident
in the emotional interpretations. In the 20th century America, mass
communication was at its height of power, parity and confidence.
However, in the world of social media, the rampant speciation of
information is exponential. We are less capable of responding to an
event, article or piece of information because of the vast disparity
in information between two or more individuals. Further, the
qualitative significance of each piece of information depends on what
presentations of that information an individual has seen. So, when
mainstream media tries to handle an event, it can't identify a
language of symbols to leverage that will evoke predictable
interpretations.

<a name="a-tall-glass-of-nihilism-to-toast-your-postmodernist-wasteland" />

# [A Tall Glass of Nihilism to Toast Your Postmodernist Wasteland](#a-tall-glass-of-nihilism-to-toast-your-postmodernist-wasteland)

This phenomenon of spectral decoherence is informational and implies
that we should amplify what unifies us.
[Diversity in body, mind and culture](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html#embracing-diversity)
is an American strength, as is our social connectedness to the rest of
the world.

<a name="spectral-decoherence-breaks-the-economics-of-content-creation" />

### [Spectral Decoherence Breaks the Economics of Content Creation](#spectral-decoherence-breaks-the-economics-of-content-creation)

Spectral decoherence is already striking, but it effects will feedback
into its interactions with the economics of content creation and
distribution. As automation funnels human economic potential into
creative endeavors, this drives an abundance of content. However, the
sheer quantity implies it can *neither* be marketed affordably *nor*
effectively. Regardless of the marketing budget, there are no IP's or
new content that can cultivate a strong following.

Left unchecked, this phenomenon implies all cultural artifacts will be
essentially noise, where no artifacts develop a significant or
marketable following among content producers or consumers. The future
is a desolate wasteland of cultural noise, full of cheap
recombinations of the same shit that nobody recognizes ... except Star
Wars because Star Wars can afford a billion dollar marketing budget.

<a name="semiotic-harmonics-and-social-engineering" />

### [Semiotic Harmonics and Social Engineering](#semiotic-harmonics-and-social-engineering)

Because our culture, language and society depends so heavily on
patterns of recognizable symbols for social engineering, pattern
languages and cultural programming, this ends in disaster because each
of these three things become much less capable of functioning without
spectral coherence of semiotic distribution. Without anticipation of
this and without proactively amplifying semiotic mappings in harmony,
we will find ourselves less capable of adapting to what we know will
be a turbulent of cultural evolution.

These essays, the
[Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html)
and the
[Death of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-17-the-death-of-creativity.html),
began to describe this converged society full of creative people
empowered to the max, who can't produce anything distinguishable.

<a name="information-warfare-in-our-brave-new-world" />

### [Information Warfare in Our Brave New World](#information-warfare-in-our-brave-new-world)

What does all of this mean for information warfare? We are not ready
for it at all. This creates a situation where a strong, powerful
adversary or even a weak one can exert influence over networking,
telecom, and media to close it down. Our information borders are wide
open, but this is as much a strength for America as it can be a
vulnerability. The dynamics, tactics and strategies of information
warfare shift beneath our feet when people are so distracted by the
social media circus they don't see it coming.

And most Westerners don't see it coming because the liberal mindset
chastises you whenever you place precedence on some cultural artifacts
over others. However, this isn't about liberalism vs conservatism.
It's just inevitable. We all have to face it. We have to artifically
prioritize some elements of our culture to create cultural coherence.
Otherwise, we will succumb to nihilism more rapidly.  Although
postmodernism is driven by the individual's will for significance
through unique expression, in the context of the Singularity,
postmodernism's influence on cultural speciation exacerbates
nihilism's disruptive influence by ultimately rendering the
individual's contribution to society indistinguishable.

#### Peak Postmodernism

![Peak Postmodernism](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/peak-post-modernism.jpg)

Further, we have to accept that we are inherently more vulnerable to
information itself. Influence, foreign or domestic, can undermine our
decisions and policy, leveraging our own communication infrastructure
to set Americans against one another. This prevents us from acting in
unison and building on each other's energy. Potential election
interference, regardless of the specifics, demonstrates this potential
for destabalization.

<a name="shangri-la-or-bust" />

# [Shangri-La Or Bust](#shangri-la-or-bust)

Humanity is approaching the pinnacle of civilization thus
far. Paradoxically, the same technology that manifests our Shangri-La
of total self awareness -- the ability to know everything there is
about being human -- also heralds sociophysical paradigm shifts that
magnify the potential for catastrophe. The beauty that we will see is
what we should have been able to see all along. We must appreciate it,
but beneath every paradise lurks danger shrouded in its magnetic
allure. If we become distracted, disoriented or disillusioned, we will
be blindsided.

We will be able to observe ourselves in near totality, connect to
almost anyone globally, and solve all biological problems. Still, our
greatest threat is nihilism and our greatest fear will be ourselves.

![Shangri-La Or Bust](/img/posts/2017-09-22-speed-of-thought-illusion-of-separation/brueghel-tower-of-babel.jpg)

During our technological ascent, we will each have our own
understanding of how the world has changed and how it has changed
us. We must hedge against potential sources of turbulence, magnified
by the principles of game theory. Technology will empower all players
for better or worse. Rogue self-interests will exploit tactics built
on novel sociophysical paradigms. An exponential rate of change
obfuscates these new facets of life. Information warfare is all about
using the energy of others for your own gain. The phenomena of
spectral decoherence expands and confounds the construction of
narratives. This also lends itself to deception and opportunistic
tactics.

<a name="the-ablation-of-causality" />

### [The Ablation of Causality](#the-ablation-of-causality)

Virtualized communication networks impair our perception of causality,
meaning cause and effect become indiscernable to the unaided
individual and, thus, increasingly irrelevant. This could render
causality itself a victim of information warfare.

The next section presents an overview of social physics, which itself
is ancient. Now that virtualized channels dominate communication, this
renders obsolete all cultures' former incarnations of social physics,
however they conceptualized it. The underlying mechanics do not change
and by familiarizing ourselves with these foundations, we can
anticipate the sociocultural implications of the Singularity.

