---
title: "Social Justice: A Just Cultural Revolution?"
categories: "blog"
tags: "psychology communism"
headline: "You're all being played for fools by anti-American interests"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
Whatever you do, Social Justice Warriors, do not let society take the
opposite path. That is the paramount danger of your quasi-leninist
destabalizaion. We've made progress, but now we must actually work
together. All Americans and all of humanity. If we cannot do this, we
will inevitably degrade into war, conflict, misery and unjust
subjugation."
---

> To be sure: Social Justice as a idea is good. It's the
> implementation of which I am critical because it seems that enemies
> of America are using it to destabalize society, while setting us up
> for a Leninist cultural revolution after economic catastrophe.

We must assert that the change in society is oriented towards
acceptible progress and that there is an acceptable rate of change. In
other words, the social darwinism of which you are so critical is
essentially gradient descent for society and we must be sure that
these mechanisms orient us in the correct direction: on a path towards
social justice in America. However, too much instability threatens
everything and, in fact, threatens to bring all your precious social
justice tumbling down on top of all Americans -- if it is not done so
in a stable, responsible, fair manner.

I believe that the strides made in the last half of the twentienth
century represent more progress than this generation could truly ever
hope to achieve. Though you are certainly not wrong to try, please,
step back and put this all in perspective: what if what you are doing
actually -- in how it sociophysically plays out -- threatens what so
many generations before you suffered so hard for to achieve?

Regardless: **Social Justice** is such a loaded term and I hate loaded
terms because you can't tell what baggage someone is going to pick and
choose to include in the frame by which they use to evaluate your
statements. Ever read Rhetoric by Aristotle? I haven't, but I did go
to Toastmasters. People are just going to evaluate what you say
firstmost with the emotional associations to the words and terms you
use, not with the actual *clear*, intellectual meanings intended.

Unfortunately, to win the game of rhetoric and thus politics, you must
first appeal to those emotional associations. You can only hope that
someone will listen to you long enough to intellectually digest your
content if you satiate their emotional needs and **that** is assuming
that someone has the intellectual wherewithal to understand what your
saying. No offense, but for me, there are like 300 people on earth who
could understand everything I write on my blog without doing much
research -- though this counts for *nothing* to *marxists'scum*.
Regardless, I hardly hope that anyone is listening today, but maybe
tomorrow they'll understand what it was that I was trying to say the
entire time, but only if I write.

That you must appeal to emotional associations is especially true when
your audience has a need to believe what you're saying is usually
false and should never be believed. For me, that last one happens to
the be the case because of this scapegoat witchhunt, in which all
sides have apparently invested so many of their marbles. If people
don't want to listen and what you're saying goes over their heads,
there's basically no hope. Munch on those soundbytes, assholes, and
that goes for both the left and the right because you're both pretty
much the same to me: *wrong enough to stall out any true progress.*

Who do we have to thank for that? **The Deep State.** The American
political system itself is a carefully calculated false dichotomy that
cancels out any true progress forward and this is by design.

Whatever you do, Social Justice Warriors, do not let society take the
opposite path. That is the paramount danger of your quasi-leninist
destabalizaion. We've made progress, but now we must actually work
together. All Americans and all of humanity. If we cannot do this, we
will inevitably degrade into war, conflict, misery and unjust
subjugation.

#### What Is Leninism And Why Is It Intolerable? Hear The Answer From Chomsky Himself

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l_jRd59qy0A" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## [This Little Mockingbird Right Here? I'm Gonna Put It To Bed](#this-little-mockingbird-right-here-im-gonna-put-it-to-bed)

#### &#2605; [Wait, You Do What?!! You Did What?!!!](#wait-you-do-what)

#### &#2605; [What Is Leninism, Trebek?](#what-is-leninism-trebek)

#### &#2605; [Controlling the Path of Least Resistence](#controlling-the-path-of-least-resistence)

#### &#2605; [What You Don't Know Can't Hurt You...](#what-you-dont-know-cant-hurt-you)

## [What You Intend Matters](#what-you-intend-matters)

#### &#2605; [How To Fight Abstract, Higher-Order Poison Pen Defamation?](#how-to-fight-abstract-higher-order-poison-pen-defamation)

#### &#2605; [I'm Not Going Respond To Your Use of Hypnosis and Triggers](#im-not-going-to-respond-to-your-use-of-hypnosis-and-triggers)

#### &#2605; [How Do You Diffuse The Label of Racist, Especially When It's False?](#how-do-you-diffuse-the-label-of-racist-especially-when-its-false)

#### &#2605; [Perhaps The Worst Possible Outcome: That False Label IS Viral](#perhaps-the-worst-possible-outcome-that-false-label-is-viral)

#### &#2605; [You Are Being Methodologically Deceived By Your Own Psychological Methods](#you-are-being-methodologically-deceived-by-your-own-psychological-methods)

#### &#2605; [Information Warfare Tactic of Scattering Seeds Always Proceeds Conflict](#information-warfare-tactic-of-scattering-seeds-always-proceeds-conflict)

## [This Partisan Belligerence Is Fomenting Radicalism](#this-partisan-belligerence-is-fomenting-radicalism)

#### &#2605; [Why's That Memo So Hard To Read Anyways?](#whys-that-memo-so-hard-to-read-anyways)

#### &#2605; [Nice Try, But I'm Not A Racist And I'm Not Going To Become One Either](#nice-try-but-im-not-a-racist-and-im-not-going-to-become-one-either)

#### &#2605; [If This Was Social Justice Warriors, Why Am I Not Angry At Minorities?](#if-this-was-social-justice-warriors-why-am-i-not-angry-at-minorities)

## [It's Literally Leninist Paint-By-Numbers](#its-literally-leninist-paint-by-numbers)

#### &#2605; [Until You Peer Backwards From Futures Past, Nothing Makes Sense](#until-you-peer-backwards-from-futures-past-nothing-makes-sense)


#### &#2605; [That's What The Trump Presidency Is About, By The Way](#thats-what-the-trump-presidency-is-about-by-the-way)

#### &#2605; [Wake Up To The Smell Of Class Struggle](#wake-up-to-the-smell-of-class-struggle)

#### &#2605; [Dear Leninists: Your Revolution Is Unsustainable And You Are Morally Corrupt](#dear-leninists-your-revolution-is-unsustainable-and-you-are-morally-corrupt)

# [If You Say The Problem Is An Ethnicity, I Feel Sorry For You](#if-you-say-the-problem-is-an-ethnicity-i-feel-sorry-for-you)

#### &#2605; [If You Have Money, You'll Never Be Anything But A Custy To Communists](#if-you-have-money-youll-never-be-anything-but-a-custy-to-communists)

#### &#2605; [Marx Got 99 Problems and A Tautology's Just One](#marx-got-99-problems-and-a-tautologys-just-one)

#### &#2605; [That's Right, Minorities Know The Pain You'll Never Know.](#thats-right-minorities-know-the-pain-youll-never-know)

#### &#2605; [If You Can't Solve Poverty, GTFO Of The Way](#if-you-cant-solve-poverty-gtfo-of-the-way)

## [Oh, You Left Me With All The "Racists?" Thanks A Lot...](#oh-you-left-me-with-all-the-racists)

#### &#2605; [General Rule of Thumb: Don't Let Your Adversary Label You](#general-rule-of-thumb-dont-let-your-adversary-label-you)

#### &#2605; [You Might Be Screening The Population To Create Lists of Political Dissidents](#you-might-be-the-population-to-create-lists-of-political-dissidents)

## [Controversial, Rash or A Fool, Yes. Hateful? Hell No](#controversial-rash-or-a-fool-yes-hateful-hell-no)

#### &#2605; [Anyone Who Met me Or Read My Writing Couldn't Possibly Think I Was Racist](#anyone-who-met-me-or-read-my-writing-couldnt-possibly-think-i-was-racist)

#### &#2605; [I Grew Up On The Four Elements Of Hip Hop](#i-grew-up-on-the-four-elements-of-hip-hop)

#### &#2605; [The Pen Is Mightier Than The Sword, Especially When It's Dipped In Poison](#the-pen-is-mightier-than-the-sword)

#### &#2605; [You Took Away Hip Hop from a B-Boy? Just To Isolate Them?](#you-took-away-hip-hop-from-a-bboy-just-to-isolate-them)

#### &#2605; [A Lower Annual Income Than The Average Person In Africa](#a-lower-annual-income-than-the-average-person-in-africa)

#### &#2605; [Abbaaaa ... BOO! Gotcha! So How Are You Doing?](#ababou-gotcha-so-how-are-you-doing)

#### &#2605; [Wanna Play A Game of Marbles With A Tengu?](#wanna-play-a-game-of-marbles-with-a-tengu)

#### &#2605; [LEAVE ME ALONE! Get it? Great!](#leave-me-alone-get-it-great)

## [Take A "Class" On This, Leninists](#take-a-class-on-this-leninists)

<a name="this-little-mockingbird-right-here-im-gonna-put-it-to-bed" />

# [This Little Mockingbird Right Here? I'm Gonna Put It To Bed](#this-little-mockingbird-right-here-im-gonna-put-it-to-bed)

> No, this is NOT a reference to the book "To Kill A Mockingbird."

What is [Operation
Mockingbird](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Mockingbird)?
Imagine being in a stadium of 10,000 people and, every 10 seconds,
half of those people shout the same, single word once. Almost like the
nauseating Occupy Wall Street technique for circumventing regulations
preventing them from speaking with megaphones at protests. Operation
Mockingbird is an attempt to use subversive tactics to get journalists
and well-connected people to say the same thing, so you're all
swimming in a sea of disinformation. It was used responsibly in the
period of time after the end of WW2.

Now that we have social media, something like this program, without
being intended, essentially runs on its own with zero direction,
oversight or intent from any American authorites. You see: the poor
have more power today than they have ever had, but the truth is that
they still don't necessarily have the education they need to properly
discern how they should exercise this power. This is horrible because
we need people more than ever to be more educated.

There's something that I really want to set straight and I thought I
did that with [this
post](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html#embracing-diversity)
and [this post](/posts/2016-07-17-diversity-is-americas-strength.html)
AND [this
post](/posts/2017-03-10-harnessing-the-congruence-of-the-human-condition-for-natural-justice.html)
-- but then I've realized that I've been all sooo censured the whole
time. Being falsely labelled as racist or anything is horrible --
especially when it involves triggering people with "A/B testing" and
hiring gypsy crystal-ball fortune tellers to interpret the facial
expressions and changes in body language.

<a name="wait-you-do-what" />

### [Wait, You Do What?!! You Did What?!!!](#wait-you-do-what)

And you're the athiest, science-freaks?  Figures. It's a
marxist. Everyone calm down, it's just the marxists and they're about
to go full-Lenin. They've been doing this shit since well before the
Bolshevik revolution.

<a name="what-is-leninism-trebek" />

### [What Is Leninism, Trebek?](#what-is-leninism-trebek)

It was so effective, they invented Leninism. Apparently, that guy came
out of nowhere -- from some unknown town in Switzerland writing essays
no one ever read -- straight to swoop in and co-opt the Bolshevik
revolution. No one saw it coming.

You want to know what I think about something? Ask me. Have you tried
that? Do I look like someone who wants to lie? Or maybe I'm just
someone who's tired of being victimized who simply wants to set shit
straight. Ask someone a straight-up question, even if that person is
awkward. Jordan Peterson said the funniest thing the other day:
"Awkward people are way more interesting that you are." Yeh, I'm
*paraphrasing*, but stop acting like I'm boring.

I really don't think any of this is OK -- being considered racist or
actually being racist (I'm not, by the way) -- but I think that it far
is worse to falsely label someone, never giving them the chance to
explain themselves. While specifically minimizing any chance they have
to fight back or to ever even know what they've been labeled as. Why
are these people trying so hard anyways? Ever thought about that?

They act like conversation and interaction is as bad as exposure to a
viral pathogen. No, conversation and interaction is how people resolve
problems, so they don't become worse over time. What happens when you
don't resolve tension that's building up, choosing to containerize it
and ignoring it?

<a name="controlling-the-path-of-least-resistence" />

### [Controlling the Path of Least Resistence](#controlling-the-path-of-least-resistence)

For physical systems, energy always manifests its paths through matter
and space via the pathways of least resistance. If there is incredibly
high resistance almost everywhere, but that tension just keeps
accumulating. There are similar parallels to sociophysical
systems. The tension doesn't go away. Yeh, you might be able to
brainwash it or subject it to coercion until it develops Stockholm
Syndrome. However, for social systems, this is worse. It still didn't
go away, you just aren't aware of it. You're not letting signals in or
out, which means you aren't getting information about that thing that
you thought was *so dangerous.*

<a name="what-you-dont-know-cant-hurt-you" />

### [What You Don't Know Can't Hurt You...](#what-you-dont-know-cant-hurt-you)

What if you and your cronies are what's dangerous? What if the danger
is thinking that you can lock people in sociophysical isolation, until
they rot or develop Stockholm Syndrome. All actions have consequences:
when people that have been targeted like that finally figure out
what's going on -- whether they developed Stockholm Syndrome or not --
they're not going to be very happy. Gee, I guess you can just monitor
them for life, then, huh? What if the actual danger is not being
capable of getting signals from sources you consider to be threats or
muting all similar signals via systemic social media censorship? I
guess it's just a moot point then, if [@jack](http://twitter.com/jack)
can just censor anyone the American Marxist Mob tells him to.

<a name="what-you-intend-matters" />

# [What You Intend Matters](#what-you-intend-matters)

What you intend matters. What do you intend to create? Are you
knowledgable and wise enough to know what you should intend? Do you
have accurate information about the situation *and* the consuences of
interaction with it? Those things you did not anticipate the need to
intend may or may not be created by forces you can't control, but what
you intend or intend not manifests itself into the world. That
certainly is within your control.

<a name="how-to-fight-abstract-higher-order-poison-pen-defamation" />

### [How To Fight Abstract, Higher-Order Poison Pen Defamation?](#how-to-fight-abstract-higher-order-poison-pen-defamation)

#### No, Really, I'm Asking For A Friend: He's A Weakass Gangstalking Piece of Shit Like All Of You Wall And I Really Want To Shut Him The Fuck Up.

The problem for me has been, in order to fight back against defamation
by false label, I have to acknowledge the label. If you've ever seen
someone else get into a conversation about "not being a racist" -- how
do those conversations go? Regardless of the accuracy of the
assertion, does that accused/inferred racist ever vindicate
themselves? No, they don't and there's nothing inherently wrong about
that. Minorities have every right to let you know what they feel about
the racial undertones of something you said. The problem is that,
regardless, the person on the other end can't really say anything that
doesn't end up digging them in further.

That's fine. For me? I just end up listening. I want the other person
to know that I want to listen to what they have to say because I can't
actually say that I have the opinion or perspective of a
minority. Thus, any information helps and I don't really want to dig
myself in further.

<a name="im-not-going-to-respond-to-your-use-of-hypnosis-and-triggers" />

### [I'm Not Going Respond To Your Use of Hypnosis or Triggers](#im-not-going-to-respond-to-your-use-of-hypnosis-and-triggers)

Therefore, I usually just respond to all assertions, direct or
indirect, with a null response where I listen. I'm not going to give
you a subconscious response: I've learned to suppress those
subconscious responses, since the aforementioned gypsy bitch is
helping get people fired over that shit with her cracked up crystal
ball.

If you falsely label me as racist, I'm not going to respond -- in
fact, I think that you would act on such invisible and false labels is
itself prejudiced. Specifically because I've dealt with this
mistreatment, I do not accept what other people say about *anyone* and
specifically statements which would set information in the contextual
frame used for future interactions with them. Instead, if anything, I
specifically look for the opposite of what you try to imply by
suggesting labels to me for another person.

I believe that poisoning the frame to disrupt someone's open mind is
one of the worst things that you can do to someone besides trying to
tell their story for them. I have probably done this incidentally, but
if I've ever done so without giving you the chance to know what I said
and respond, then I apologize. Please correct me, if I'm not censured.

Apparently, for all your knowledge of subconscious reactions and
facial expressions, you just cant't get it through your heads that I'm
not racist -- why?  Because your most radical leadership *needs* it to
be true or at least *needs you to believe that it is true*. Otherwise,
the house of cards they built falls apart and that looks real bad.

#### How'd You Figure That Anyways? Must Be The Smarts. Have We Ever Met?

![Philosoraptor](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/racist-philosoraptor.jpg)

<a name="how-do-you-diffuse-the-label-of-racist-especially-when-its-false" />

### [How Do You Diffuse The Label of Racist, Especially When It's False?](#how-do-you-diffuse-the-label-of-racist-especially-when-its-false)

When people assume that it must be true, are they going to bring it up
in conversation? NO! No one's going to talk about it. Well, if i have
to do that to fight back, then it means I end up looking like I'm on
"that side" ... well, i'm not on the racists' side and I never will
be, which means that they don't really want me either, if you think
about it. And have you ever spent time around people you have to
incessently remind: "Don't be racist!" while wagging your finger. How
is that? Is it fun? Is it something you want to do all the fucking
time? NO! Racism and anti-semitism are intolerable, but what is worse
is the race-baiting for political expediency.

<a name="perhaps-the-worst-possible-outcome-that-false-label-is-viral" />

### [Perhaps The Worst Possible Outcome: That False Label IS Viral](#perhaps-the-worst-possible-outcome-that-false-label-is-viral)

Because people like me are falsely labeled about something we can't
talk about and then people in society generally distance themselves,
at best. At worst, individuals in society begin to think "Hey, that
guys a racist. Maybe it's not so bad."  -- all the while, It's a
conversation topic that just never fucking comes up. To make
everything worse, this occurs at a time where society has decided to
weaponize psychology, sociology, hypnosis and NLP. Mass communications
have become decentralized. It's now full of peer-to-peer communication
channels that are generally low-bandwidth: mostly textual
communications, which are perfect for that marxist gypsy to cause
other people to misinterpret the reactions -- *WHICH IS EXACTLY HOW
METHODOLOGICAL MAGICK WORKS YOU IDIOTS!* It's evil!

<a name="you-are-being-methodologically-deceived-by-your-own-psychological-methods" />

### [You Are Being Methodologically Deceived By Your Own Psychological Methods](#you-are-being-methodologically-deceived-by-your-own-psychological-methods)

#### Your Essentially "Divining" Whether Someone Is Racist Via Triggers & Codewords, [Without Understanding How "Locution" Can Be Abused](/posts/2017-10-20-scientologys-three-step-process-for-great-pyramid-schemery.html)

The techniques that have been used on me blow my mind. They are
incomprehensibly complex, but what is even more mystifying is that
someone thought, against Occam's Razor, that any of this *could* even
work. They only did this because they were confident in their ability
to mitigate the situation without regard for how it might specifically
develop.

Read a book on category theory and get back to me when you figure out
how to induce monoidal response patterns for encouraging anyone's
statements and responses to be misinterpreted by everyone. You don't
actually have to understand category theory to learn how to do this,
by the way. Anyone who is not socially vulnerable or who is successful
with conversation must understand these things, intuitively. They just
can't methodically explain them. I can because that was the only way I
was ever going to learn how to understand what was happening to me.

<a name="information-warfare-tactic-of-scattering-seeds-always-proceeds-conflict" />

### [Information Warfare Tactic of Scattering Seeds Always Proceeds Conflict](#information-warfare-tactic-of-scattering-seeds-always-proceeds-conflict)

A decade or more of informational conflict always preceeds
sociopolitical, civil or military conflict. It's in the years before
the actual conflict that the seeds are being sown to create options
for leaders to use later own when the conflict actually becomes
obvious. Regardless of whether that leadership is organized,
decentralized or even anonymized, This helps them influence the course
of narratives, sift to find strikingly emotionally relevant events,
and tune the action of the people to filtrate their bases of
support. All of this is, by design, very difficult to observe as its
happening because otherwise, those in power will simply defuse the
issues. This concept of sowing seeds is especially important for civil
conflicts, like revolution or expected collapse.

<a name="this-partisan-belligerence-is-fomenting-radicalism" />

# [This Partisan Belligerence Is Fomenting Radicalism](#this-partisan-belligerence-is-fomenting-radicalism)

Over the past two decades, the left and the right are incessantly
belligerating, which is hardly new. That's politics, however, this has
become unacceptable.  People who aren't racist and aren't trying to
hunt down racists like animals either, but also want to be able to
support their own political ideology without falsely being labelled
racist, smeared at work, etc by social justice warriors operating
righteously because they authentically think they are doing what is
right.

Well, you've got good intentions, but you're wrong. I'm not racist. I
never was. I never will be. I was falsely labelled and someone
indirectly asked you to target me and shows you some chopped and
screwed audio clip or some shit and now you're attacking me with all
the righteousness and vitreousity of Joan d'Arc. You know what I am?
FUCKING PISSED OFF. At who? White, liberal America.

#### And They Wonder Why I Have Trust Problems

> "Good day, 'American' asexualized-incel, booked(?) racist bag
> o'shit, would you like to have the only conversation with a woman
> you've never met that you'll ever have in America to last more than
> five minutes? Good! Tell me all your secrets, we're going to destroy
> you. It's definitely not a trap. It will be used to neurologically
> torture you for the rest of your life. Don't kill yourself
> immediately; we need to make this a good one. A long one and a good
> one."

![The Honeypot](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/honeypot.jpg)

<a name="whys-that-memo-so-hard-to-read-anyways" />

### [Why's That Memo So Hard To Read Anyways?](#whys-that-memo-so-hard-to-read-anyways)

By the way, it's amazing how easy it is to correct a misunderstanding
with a simple conversation, right? Five eyes are better than one,
n'est plus ultra? I'm not talking about a situation that actually
happened, of course. No, because if that content was used to victimize
me for three years, even by people I don't know, then I certainly
would have heard about it by now, right? Unless ... you don't mean
that these people never meant for me to make it this far! And no, i'm
not talking about *you*, honeypots come in all shapes and
sizes. Sometimes, I'm pretty sure *that one* just hadn't gotten "the
memo" about David Conner. The one that says: do not, under any
circumstance, allow this person to ever feel like anything more than
an abused puppy. We've gotten our hands *real dirty* to make all this
wonderful black magick happen. It's cost us millions and it'd be a
real shame if we boarded you, too. Yeh, I'm pretty sure that's what
happened, sometimes, but -- again -- how the fuck am I supposed to
know? Anyways ...

#### She's Got Gloves Because She Don't Touch Nothing

![Ilya Girl](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/ilya-girl.jpg)

<a name="nice-try-but-im-not-a-racist-and-im-not-going-to-become-one-either" />

### [Nice Try, But I'm Not A Racist And I'm Not Going To Become One Either](#nice-try-but-im-not-a-racist-and-im-not-going-to-become-one-either)

I was wondering whether people would try this. It's so horribly wrong,
it's a tragedy that doesn't fit on the classic Shakespearean scale for
"That's some reallll fucked up shit, ain't it?" And that's kind of the
point I was trying to make all along, but would anyone listen?  NOPE.
Never. Well ... occasionally. You could have thrown all the
neo-leninist hypnotists that you want at me and it was never going to
work.

<a name="if-this-was-social-justice-warriors-why-am-i-not-angry-at-minorities" />

### [If This Was Social Justice Warriors, Why Am I Not Angry At Minorities?](#if-this-was-social-justice-warriors-why-am-i-not-angry-at-minorities)

If I was subjected to all these false-witness crypto-leninist gypsies,
why wouldn't I be pissed off at a specific ethnicity? Or other
ethnicities generally? Because it's not their fault and that is
precisely the trap. Instead, this problem speaks deeply about the
fallibility of humans in general. Besides, people who are not white
and not socialist generally gave me the benefit of the doubt more
often than not.

Why is that? Well, there's a few reasons for that and I'm glad that I
was wise enough to be peaceful about being mislabelled. Most people
might just lash back at what they thought was the cause of their
problems. That means, they weren't racist before, but then after being
falsely labeled, they generally gravitate towards a group of people
that accepts them. This is what is infuriating about your dumb "social
justice" bullshit when it's not warranted. You are creating the
problem and *your more radical leaders know that they are creating the
problem*.

<a name="its-literally-leninist-paint-by-numbers" />

# [It's Literally Leninist Paint-By-Numbers](#its-literally-leninist-paint-by-numbers)

These radical leninists are lying to you because they know that they
can use ethnic tension to make America weaker. They also know how
useful this will be in maintaining and perpetuating power after a
cultural revolution. Simply use a broad brush and paint all your
enemies later on as being racists, if their in the opposition. Many
things are not meant to be seen and will not make sense until you look
backwards after extrapolating forwards. The more things that seem to
line up from such futures past and the more difficult these inferences
are to make, the more likely it is that someone has hidden designs.
This is how "it's obvious" -- except it's not. It is certainly not
meant to be seen until it was too late.

<a name="until-you-peer-backwards-from-futures-past-nothing-makes-sense" />

### [Until You Peer Backwards From Futures Past, Nothing Makes Sense](#until-you-peer-backwards-from-futures-past-nothing-makes-sense)

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zcqZHYo7ONs" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In the video above, your eyes don't actually receive a photonic signal
until the entanglement via polarization has been resolved with
certainty. So you extrapolate to look forward, then look backwards. If
you only try to extrapolate with deterministic certainty, you will
never figure these things out, which is exactly what these Leninist
architects intend. And *that* is what makes these far-far-leftists so
goddamn criminal. They know they must make the bottom fall out and
they let their contempted bougeoisie feel comfortably in power until
it does.

<a name="thats-what-the-trump-presidency-is-about-by-the-way" />

### [That's What The Trump Presidency Is About, By The Way](#thats-what-the-trump-presidency-is-about-by-the-way)

This is why the leninists *want* Trump in power, as crazy as that
sounds. When everything happens -- because they have the advantage of
numbers and have belligerently caused so many problems in democratic
societies -- the poor will do anything they say. After the bottom
falls out, the economy will not function again for the poor or the
rich, which means money doesn't mean shit for anyone. Then they get to
lash back at Trump and all the "bougeoisie" that he represents.

<a name="wake-up-to-the-smell-of-class-struggle" />

### [Wake Up To The Smell Of Class Struggle](#wake-up-to-the-smell-of-class-struggle)

> It's not Marxism, it's Leninism. Pray for your precious world
> revolution *empire* or that's the only coffee you're ever going to
> drink. Communism is certainly economically unsustainable without
> "world revolution", by the way.

![Marxism Coffee Mix](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/marxism-mix-coffee.png)

Furthermore, leninists will bide their time. They *know* that they
only get one real shot at revolution per generation, absent systemic
sociological chaos. Why? Because that's the flaw that Lenin addressed
with Marxism: the rich responded to Marxist revolution by satiating
the poor's desire for higher standard of living -- nevermind that this
probably had more to do with the industrial revolution **and
technology** than most of the actual response to marxism. At this
point, the rich have woken up and clamp down again, only to relax a
few decades later ... or so the theory goes.

<a name="dear-leninists-your-revolution-is-unsustainable-and-you-are-morally-corrupt" />

### [Dear Leninists: Your Revolution Is Unsustainable And You Are Morally Corrupt](#dear-leninists-your-revolution-is-unsustainable-and-you-are-morally-corrupt)

To me, it is all about what you **intend** to create in society.
Almost no leftists would intend to create these problems, but the
moreso Leninist architects of this? They're traitors and if they got
away with this stuff, they would have gotten away with it for all time
because of the singularity. They are ruining the economy without
regard for how that affects our ability to project American and
Western power abroad. Why? Because they don't care that their
revolution to create communism essentially revokes any sensible
argument for Americans to control the global reserve currency. It's
staring them straight in the face and they wouldn't even care if the
noticed it. Why? Because they're Marxists at heart: they just make
shit up to win and they have the numbers to sociophysically amplify
their message to get away with it. The rich do not, especially in the
cyber era, even though the rich do have money...

<a name="if-you-say-the-problem-is-an-ethnicity-i-feel-sorry-for-you" />

# [If You Say The Problem Is An Ethnicity, I Feel Sorry For You](#if-you-say-the-problem-is-an-ethnicity-i-feel-sorry-for-you)

The point is: no ethnicity is the problem. The problem is
passive-aggressive, radicalized, political operatives. Why would
people of specific ethnicities be less likely to act as social justice
warriors or to lash out at people who have only be thinly labelled as
racist? Because they know what it's like to be mistreated and
stereotyped. They know the pain.


Why else? because they know that your trust-fund chomping skinny white
socialist ass might be wrong. and if someone falsely labeled another
who is targeted, that looks reallly bad. it sets race relations
back. People who actually respect ethnic issues know this, so they
don't do it. who respects ethnic issues more than anyone? people who
have shared in the suffering and progress of those ethnicities. they
know what it's like to be set back and have shared that pain. Sure,
you -- as a white trust-fund activist -- should be applauded for
caring about the suffering of others so much you'd spend your
trust-fund daddy's money to get arrested at a protest, which is fine,
since the left needs rich people like you to make the more painful
sacrifices and to help feed the masses...

<a name="if-you-have-money-youll-never-be-anything-but-a-custy-to-communists" />

### [If You Have Money, You'll Never Be Anything But A Custy To Communists](#if-you-have-money-youll-never-be-anything-but-a-custy-to-communists)

You ain't never gonna be nothing but a custy to them, or something
like that. Basically: they're hoping you might have some money, which
is why any power you contribute to their movement will slip away from
your fingers if you're not careful. It is also why you'll probably
find yourself at an informational disadvantage, quite often,
especially around your leadership. Just be glad that their revolution
hasn't hit full gear yet because when it does, they're pretty much
done using you, unless you're willing to carnivously tear apart
anything that stands in your way and especially all your wealthy
connections.

Even their tactics reek of the same money-grubbing bougeoisie that
they hate so much. You just don't know it yet because you haven't
studied enough. You don't know what it's like to plan something like
this over the course of decades because you're so caught up by what
you see on MSNBC, ABC, CNN and even FOX to ever watch a fucking
lecture. You're distracted and you are within the system or at least
within the system's disruption and therefore, it's almost impossible
to see it clearly. You need to learn.

<a name="marx-got-99-problems-and-a-tautologys-just-one" />

### [Marx Got 99 Problems and A Tautology's Just One](#marx-got-99-problems-and-a-tautologys-just-one)

To anyone on the left, I implore you to challenge your believes,
especially on economics and philosophy. Why not? I learn about my
enemy. There is nothing more valuable to me than learning how to
dissect my enemy and especially their arguments. I can destroy you
with nothing but your own philosophic axioms and foundational
beliefs. That is: I can tear your beliefs apart and put them back
together with nothing but what you give me, which implies inherent,
systemic, tautological fallibility.

#### And Yet, You Say This Was A Fair Fight? I Hope You Take That Into Account When I Finally Destroy You. You're Going To Need Something To Remember That Keeps You Down, Communists.

![And I Was Ever Going To Win A Debate With You](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/3rd-world-kid.jpg)

> "Like I was ever going to wind a debate with Marxists already
> exerting near-total influence? You drown out anything you don't want
> to hear, like Mockingbird on steroids, since you engage in
> demagoguery to rile up the masses *you know* don't understand
> economics." - The Literal [Third World
> American](https://www.instagram.com/p/BEL9P82y5ef/?taken-by=dchronik)

<a name="thats-right-minorities-know-the-pain-youll-never-know" />

### [That's Right, Minorities Know The Pain You'll Never Know.](#thats-right-minorities-know-the-pain-youll-never-know)

#### They Have No Choice But To Endure Pains And Joys of Their Identity. It's Not Something You Can Turn Off When Your Done Thinking About It.

But, you don't actually know what it's like to be African American,
Hispanic American or Indian American. Sure, you can imagine what it's
like. you can connect with them. you can protest with them. struggle
with them. but, you are never going to be one of them. these people
have experienced unfair treatment for their entire life. unfair
treatment happens to everyone.

Racism isn't the problem in america. yes, there are leftover fragments
of ethnic tension in america that are sociophysical relics of the
variance in the distribution of population, as well as other
factors. yes, that's real, but the true problem is poverty and poverty
affects everyone. it doesn't matter if you're black, white, yellow or
orange with a blond wig. poverty affects everyone and if you don't
recognize the root of the problem, you can't solve the problem.

<a name="if-you-cant-solve-poverty-gtfo-of-the-way" />

### [If You Can't Solve Poverty, GTFO Of The Way](#if-you-cant-solve-poverty-gtfo-of-the-way)

#### Because It Looks Like You're Using The Poor

If you can't solve the problem, get the fuck out of the way. I can
solve the problem and you're making it realllly hard. "Detention" =>
What IS that anyways? Am I stuck in some common core middle school and
I don't even know it? Under who's authority? Your de facto authority?
I don't think so. If I don't see a goddamn badge, why should I trust
you?

<a name="oh-you-left-me-with-all-the-racists" />

# [Oh, You Left Me With All The "Racists?" Thanks A Lot...](#oh-you-left-me-with-all-the-racists)

#### GTFO of Here With Your False Dichotomy Bullshit Anyways. SAME TEAM?!

> **False Dichotomy**: A situation in which two alternative points of
> views are presented as the only options, whereas others are
> available.

So, you see. i'm between a rock and a hard place. I don't actually
want to be completely isolated from "both sides" whatever the fuck
that means. As far as I am concerned, if one of those sides is *the*
racist side, they can jump off a fucking cliff because I don't need
them and no one does.

<a name="general-rule-of-thumb-dont-let-your-adversary-label-you" />

### [General Rule of Thumb: Don't Let Your Adversary Label You](#general-rule-of-thumb-dont-let-your-adversary-label-you)

But you'd be surprised: Imagine asking a white liberal to identify all
the racists from a room full of 10,000 republicans -- imagine a Trump
rally. Now let's tweets and social interactions this person had access
to, they'd label almost every single one as racist. That's simply not
true. If you asked that same group of people "Are you racist?" yeh,
maybe a handful would raise their hands proudly. Now, I'm saying that
the rest of those republicans would like those guys to jump off a
fucking cliff *because they're making it real hard for the rest of
us.*

<a name="you-might-be-the-population-to-create-lists-of-political-dissidents" />

### [You Might Be Screening The Population To Create Lists of Political Dissidents](#you-might-be-the-population-to-create-lists-of-political-dissidents)

Do you see the fucking problem here? you're not fighting a in a
conflict for "social justice." You're unwittingly screening the
political opposition for people to systematically disempower, all
without truly knowing what's going on. *IT'S A GODDAMN CULTURAL
REVOLUTION.*

<a name="controversial-rash-or-a-fool-yes-hateful-hell-no" />

# [Controversial, Rash or A Fool, Yes. Hateful? Hell No](#controversial-rash-or-a-fool-yes-hateful-hell-no)

Again, I've [written about my feelings on ethnic issues
before](/posts/2016-07-17-diversity-is-americas-strength.html). They
figured out that they were wrong, but then they censored my
writing. They *needed* me to look like a racist.

<a name="anyone-who-met-me-or-read-my-writing-couldnt-possibly-think-i-was-racist" />

### [Anyone Who Met me Or Read My Writing Couldn't Possibly Think I Was Racist](#anyone-who-met-me-or-read-my-writing-couldnt-possibly-think-i-was-racist)

They knew that anyone who actually read what I had to say couldn't
reasonably think that I was racist.  They also knew that anyone who
interacted with me in an open-minded way couldn't possibly think I was
racist. That is, if I was aloud to act in situtations where in a
comfortable setting, interacting normally and *not subjected to games
designed specifically so I'd fail publicly and spectacularly.*

<a name="i-grew-up-on-the-four-elements-of-hip-hop" />

### [I Grew Up On The Four Elements Of Hip Hop](#i-grew-up-on-the-four-elements-of-hip-hop)

What do I mean by a comfortable setting? what's my ideal safe space? A
motherfucking B-Boy Jam, you assholes. I love hip hope. I loved how it
was an amazing vibrant culture that had sprung up in American cities
to give people hope by giving them something that belonged to
everyone, combining components of cultures worldwide. It had become
viral across the world and transformed urban communities everywhere. I
became frustrated me when I recognized that some of those elements
became overly commercialized.

Now, do you think the people who are influential in the hip hop
communities of the four elements want to have anything to do with
someone who's been [falsely] labelled as racist? NO! FUCK NO! So what
does that do to me?

#### Nope, Don't Nobody Want Nonna That Weak-Ass Decaf

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hl-LSOpkO38" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<a name="the-pen-is-mightier-than-the-sword" />

### [The Pen Is Mightier Than The Sword, Especially When It's Dipped In Poison](#the-pen-is-mightier-than-the-sword)

You fucking defamed me with your [poison
pen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poison_pen_letter) -- yeh, I've
made some messed up statements, but they were always very public in a
social forum that gives the other person the chance to know who said
it and to respond. That is, only if they're legally permitted to do so
without some gag order that says they have to propagate the false
labels these psychological eichmenns worked so hard to burden me down
with. I'm not proud of everything I've done. Hardly. But if you want
to say I'm shirking the responsibility of dealing with the
consequences of my actions, then why have I been sooo public about
everything for so long? Who's gonna throw that first stone at me?
Because I know I've got a lot of them coming.

You want to set the record straight? *SAY SOMETHING THEN*. Otherwise,
GTFO of here with that passive aggressive bullshit. And I already
*know* that you're not going to say anything. You aren't going to
start now, are you? I wish you would. I don't want to fight anyone or
hurt anyone. No, I want to make things better. Tell me how I can do
that because otherwise, all I can see is a world that wants to tell me
to lock myself in an institution because they can't handle their own
stinky-ass double decker.

<a name="you-took-away-hip-hop-from-a-bboy-just-to-isolate-them" />

### [You Took Away Hip Hop from a B-Boy? Just To Isolate Them?](#you-took-away-hip-hop-from-a-bboy-just-to-isolate-them)

You took away hip hop from me, all to isolate me and make me
vulnerable. This happened fairly early on, by the way. Around 2010, at
least, but at that point, there were just rumors. I know because I had
good friends lash out at me and I didn't know why.

So, what does sociophysical isolation do to someone? It drives them
insane, since it is essentially no different than portable solitary
confinement. For someone already dealing with Asperger's and social
vulnerability, this can be far more than the straw needed to break a
camel's back.

> "Oh, he loves breakdancing? Won't stop? It provides exercise, cardio
> and positive social interaction? Perfect! Take it all away."

<a name="a-lower-annual-income-than-the-average-person-in-africa" />

### [A Lower Annual Income Than The Average Person In Africa](#a-lower-annual-income-than-the-average-person-in-africa)

What else does it do? Sociophysical isolation allows you to tightly
control the social conditions, **almost** like an "experiment" --
which conveniently allows someone to "record" "data" that will no
doubt be magically vanished the second someone comes asking for
it. How many times has that happened anyways? Grow some fucking balls
because right now, it looks like you're getting your ass handed to you
by a five-foot-five retard with zero true friends who makes less money
annually than most people do in African nations. Goddamn, Leninists.
All they have is passive aggressive bullshit because they know they
can't win a real debate. That doesn't make you smart, it actually
makes you STUPID and WEAK.

#### Here's some 1337 H4X0R Income Taxes From 2015

![Income Taxes](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/2015-tax-return.jpg)

<a name="ababou-gotcha-so-how-are-you-doing" />

### [Abbaaaa ... BOO! Gotcha! So How Are You Doing?](#ababou-gotcha-so-how-are-you-doing)

#### Come Here Often? I Didn't Think So... Oh, You Do? Tell Me More...

Once someone knows that you're going to passive-aggressively avoid
every interaction, they gain magical powers because they can make you
disappear real quick, just by starting a conversation. If you've ever
been gangstalked, try being friendly with those ironic fucks. You'll
never see someone run away from potential acquaintanceship faster with
a more ghastly pale on their face. They'll never see it coming, which
is hilarious: it means they expected you to be completely predictable
*AND SOCIALLY VULNERABLE UNDER ALL CIRCUMSTANCES.* Certainly, never to
recover or improve: because THAT was the INTENT, all along, which just
goes to show you how important intent and cognizance are.

<a name="wanna-play-a-game-of-marbles-with-a-tengu" />

### [Wanna Play A Game of Marbles With A Tengu?](#wanna-play-a-game-of-marbles-with-a-tengu)

Let me come feed you some wheaties, bitches. Let's debate for real,
you squarmy, sardonic fucks. Oh? Whats that? I didn't think so
... fucking weak-minded, weak-willed toxic figments of my perpetual
social miasma. That is all you will ever be, a sickly little sheep
begging someone else to solve your problems.

#### Here's One Such Clown That's A Lot Like A Gangstalker.

> One important difference: this guy was standing when he died. Y'all
> spineless fucks don't seem to stand for nothing nor nobody either,
> AFAIK -- but how would I know the difference. It's not like you
> would actually have a conversation with someone. Scroll all the way
> down, if you want to imagine me laughing my ass off.
>
> <spits n="however many you want, bitch. you aint' gonna do nothing
> />"

![Clown Suicide](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/clown-suicide.jpg)

And no, I'm not asking gangstalkers to commit suicide here. That's one
unfortunate clown who's not gonna take any more cold showers. What I
am asking: have a goddamn conversation with a target sometime, if
you're even allowed to do that. I guess it depends on what you know
about their psychology, which indicates cognizance, malicious intent
[to drive someone to suicide] and the required logistics to unlawfully
transmit mental health information about someone without their
consent.

<a name="leave-me-alone-get-it-great" />

### [LEAVE ME ALONE! Get it? Great!](#leave-me-alone-get-it-great)

And THAT is why you shouldn't have fucked with someone as intelligent
as me. And I'm going to do everything I can to make you pay because
anyone else who's been through this would NOT be able to stand up for
themselves. If you can admit to many how many people have been through
this, I'll know what a proportional response is and when to
stop. Until then, pick out a real good Hallmark Card for me because
you're going to need it.

#### Tengu Test? YOU FAIL

![Tengu Test? YOU FAIL](/img/posts/2018-01-23-social-justice-a-just-cultural-revolution/tengu-statues.jpg)

Again, I'm sorry for creating these problems, but I dare you & implore
you to help me stop this, instead of attempting to use it for
pragmatic political expedience! Who could be the first to do that
without they themselves becoming targeted? Who thought to **ever**
give me the chance to deal with the consequences of what I *allegedly*
created?

<a name="take-a-class-on-this-leninists" />

# [Take A "Class" On This, Leninists](#take-a-class-on-this-leninists)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WoMVfvS8rSo" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
