---
title: "A Speculative History Of Humanity: Calamity Echoes Through Our Psyche"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology linguistics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- part two starts with 8,000 BC - 5,000 BC, then covers up to 4,000 BC
- part three covers 4,000 BC through 2,000 BC and then sums up the
  rest

There aren't very many people quite yet. *Fuck!* (imperative joke)

Lets be real: up to this point, humanity has been sticking to the
rivers and lakes that it's used to. But that's all about to change.
Things are starting to heat up. Literally.

As I stated in the last article, this writing represents my personal
thoughts on human history from the Neolithic through the Bronze Age
and it shouldn't be taken as fact or reflect my understanding of
historical facts.  It's titled "A Speculative History" for a reason.
I hope to provide a good story and possibly spark your interest. If I
do, follow up with some research yourself.


## [Pre-Historic Written Language](#prehistoric-written-language)

#### &#x03D5; [Calamity Echoes Through Human Psyche](#calamity-echos-through-human-psyche)

#### &#x03D5; [Wherefore Sees Rising](#wherefore-sees-rising)

## [Innovate or Die](#innovate-or-die)

#### &#x03D5; [The Origins of Conflict](#the-origins-of-conflict)

#### &#x03D5; [Cooperation is Moreso Rewarding](#cooperation-is-moreso-rewarding)

#### &#x03D5; [Swords to Plowshares](#swords-to-plowshares)

#### &#x03D5; [Metallurgy ... Or How Hot Can We Make Fire?](#metallurgy-or-how-hot-can-we-make-fire)

#### &#x03D5; [How Hot Can Ug Make Exothermic Combustion Reaction?](#how-hot-can-ug-make-exothermic-combustion-reaction)

#### &#x03D5; [Ancient Knowledge of Oil](#ancient-knowledge-of-oil)

#### &#x03D5; [Emergence of Copper Mining](#emergence-of-copper-mining)

## [The Origin of Religion](#the-origin-of-religion)

#### &#x03D5; [What Is God, To You?](#what-is-god-to-you)

#### &#x03D5; [Religion as Survival of the Most Empowering](#religion-as-survival-of-the-most-empowering)

#### &#x03D5; [What Is The Knowledge of Good and Evil?](#what-is-the-knowledge-of-good-and-evil)

## [The Deluge(s)](#the-deluges)

#### &#x03D5; [Monolithic Paroxysm of Civilizational Collapse](#monolithic-paroxysm-of-civilizational-collapse)

#### &#x03D5; [Glacial Outburst Flooding](#glacial-outburst-flooding)

#### &#x03D5; [Lake Agassiz Glacial Outburst Flood](#lake-agassiz-glacial-outburst-flood)

#### &#x03D5; [Global Warming is a Ten Thousand Year Trend](#global-warming-is-a-ten-thousand-year-trend)

<a name="prehistoric-written-language" />

# [Pre-Historic Written Language](#prehistoric-written-language)

What I can state with confidence is that the story that we know is not
the complete truth. There is a lot missing and various empires added
in a lot of content through the ages. It does appear that there was no
system of writing that emerged before Sumeria. If there was, it would
show up across the world.  The invention of written language was viral
because if it's economic implications and it's ability to systemitize
belief systems. IMO, Vinƒça and ICV writing samples were ideographic
proto-writing, which would be formative in establishing symbols to
link concepts across tribally structured peoples. That is, it seems
people discovered that they could establish symbols that would enable
them to communicate across tribal boundaries.

A symbolicized phonetic written language just 14wouldn't seem natural
for the people of 5,000 B.C or earlier. Written language only becomes
useful when people can read what you write and it's unlikely that
verbal language was consistent enough to enable a written language to
apply to more than a few thousand people at most. If there were some
advanced written language, it's unlikely that all samples of such
language from before 5,000 B.C. were written on a degrading medium
such as wood, instead of fired clay.  Linguistic analysis of Sumerian
clay tablets clearly shows the exceptionally high rate of evolution of
the language from the 4th millenia to the 3rd. This matches what I'd
expect to see when written language is a novel concept.

To me, it's interesting to learn more about Harappan and ICV culture
because it is clear that we've only scratched the surface. So I'm
hopeful that we'll have the chance to study more of their
establishments.

<a name="calamity-echos-through-human-psyche" />

### [Calamity Echoes Through Human Psyche](#calamity-echos-through-human-psyche)

The Neolithic was fraught with changing weather patterns and
disaster. This continued through the late Neolithic, up through the
early Copper Age.  After 6,000 BC, the ice stopped melting and the
weather became a lot more stable.  When ice melts and land bridges are
broken, ocean currents and undersea brine rivers are disrupting,
forming new patterns which drive weather.

The changing weather causes some areas to lose their appeal for
settlement, forcing people to find greener pastures.  This would
obfuscate evidence of earlier human settlements, since we need to look
for place which may have been overrun by nature or wouldn't make sense
to us, like the bottom of the English Channel. Such was the case for
the Sahara, which was mostly green and arable through a long
transition around 5,000 BC, finally becoming the desert we know today.

Through the neolithic period, most of humanity was nomadic. Lack of
settlement means lack of sustained agriculture, though. Because our
food source is restricted to what we can find to eat, this limits our
population, as do many other factors, such as regularly scheduled
catastrophic flooding.

Lack of settlement means trade is sporadic at best and both of these
factors contribute to stifled cultural development. Trade might be
the single most important factor incentivizing development of abstract
written communication, so that's right out too.  When you trade, you
have to count things, write them down and persist that information.

The humans that did settle would do so near the ocean, along rivers,
deltas and lakes.  They would find the easy access to water alluring
and so would animals, providing food.  However, these are the exact
areas subject to widespread destruction in flooding, which was often
seasonal, but sometimes devastating.  And these are just the exact
people who would be developing the basis of sophisticated
culture. During the period of 12,000 BC through 6,000 BC, there were
likely dozens of megafloods around the world, each wiping out between
5% and 50% of the population in that region.  If you experienced an
event like that and survived, you'd want to know why and you'd want to
find out how to prevent it from happening again.  Yet, these events
were relatively rare to the victim populations and only preserved
through myth.  It was difficult to understand the mechanism causing
flooding and if some group did, then it was difficult to propagate
that knowledge or discern a method to predict when one would happen.

<a name="wherefore-sees-rising" />

### [Wherefore Sees Rising](#wherefore-sees-rising)

However, that's not to say that we didn't understand what was going on
around us.  In my opinion, ancient humanity was well aware of rising
sea levels, since this is something they'd definitely be able to mark
and measure over the course of three or so generations.  At times, the
sea was rising at a rate of 10m every 300-500 years.  That's really
fast, for some areas.  People would notice --

> Oh shit, guys.  I think we're about to be on an island.  I don't
> think there's any way off of this thing.  Are you staying?  I'm
> peacin' out y'all.  Nevermind, too late.  There's not much food left
> here.  You think we can make somethin' that floats real good? I'm
> starving.

Boom. Seafare.

<a name="innovate-or-die" />

# [Innovate or Die](#innovate-or-die)

This ever-changing world -- did it create the conditions that required
humanity to innovate? If not, would humanity have perished? How many
others came before mankind, just on the cusp of intelligent life? This
world was changing much faster than ours is today. This is how it's
always been, but we are certainly accelerating it.

But their world was full of dying glaciers. People in that time must
have been able to see what was coming. And some of the became cut off
from previous thoroughways like the Bering Strait or undeniably
trapped on increasingly small islands. When would these changes stop?
Would they ever? Would the whole world flood?! If so, how would they
escape?

By developing crude seafare. By learning to dominate their
surroundings and environment. And, as sea levels rose and glaciers
extent undulated across the continents, microsocieties were locked
into various degrees of hierarchical isolation for periods of
centuries or millinea. This is the perfect means for separating and
fermenting various combinations of ideas.  There really couldn't be a
more well-designed accident as the conditions that preceded humanities
emergence into cultural self-awareness.

So you see, this transition was destructive and creative at the same
time, isolating groups of humans and psychologically imprinting us
with disaster, over and over again.  These disasters sparked a need to
conceptualize the world around us.  To understand, we developed means of
surveying the earth.  We developed an intense desire to understand
geography, everyone did.  It was already crucial for sustenance and
intriguing for self-discovery, but now it was important for survival.

We developed archeoastronomy, utilizing monoliths and smaller markers
to measure the motion of the stars, perhaps the only thing that ever
remained unquestionably constant... As people had been migrating
throughout the ice age, the stars should have been well known for
navigation. Yeh, it's kinda like Google Maps, but for caves. This
would only become more systematized. Through the Copper Age, it became
apparent that understanding these phenomena granted power and
influence over others.  At some point, we reached a critical mass of
understanding, when cultural artifacts became more valuable and useful
for survival than anything tangible could be, in itself.

This dynamic, deadly world of the Late Neolithic and Copper Age
provided us with the impetus for humanity to culturally innovate.  We
began to share information with other groups and more importantly, we
began to develop methodical strategies to share information more
efficiently and effectively.  And then, there was metallurgy, perhaps
the most important development until writing. In addition to being a
useful new technology, metallurgy paved way to creating resources
worth accumulating.

Excess of goods helped foster trade.  Trade incentivized cultural
exchange, the acquisition of new technologies, and conflict.  The
accelerating cultural exchange lead us to expand our lexicon: the set
of words and ideas we were aware of and could combine to form new
ideas. For the intelligent, commerce also provided motivation to
discover geography to locate the fastest and most trodden routes.
Trade quickly drove us to abstract the notion of value into money to
further accelerate commerce.  This was tightly related to metallurgy.
What else could be so valuable to anyone except gold or copper:
materials which should be equally useful to anyone with a hammer.

> It's shiny? I can bang it with a rock, loudly, till I get what ever
> I need? Gotta have it.  How long do I have to bang it?  Is it Gold?
> Never seent it. Is it copper?  Got tons of it. Good stuff.  Silver?
> Never heard of it. Lead? Raw? How hot do I have to burn it?

Trade and especially money drove us to create written language, with
which we could propagate ideas without speech and preserve traditions
or will, even beyond death.  Systematized forms of writing beyond art
were not developed until the end of Copper Age or the beginning of the
Bronze Age.

<a name="the-origins-of-conflict" />

### [The Origins of Conflict](#the-origins-of-conflict)

Human conflict doesn't seem common until the mid copper age, at least
not on a scale pitting one society against another in an organized
way.  It wouldn't become very common until the bronze age because the
factors that make warfare appealing for survival or political purposes
don't quite exist yet.  There are some exceptions.  Conflict on a
small scale may have been somewhat common in the neolithic, as this
[article](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/jan/20/stone-age-massacre-offers-earliest-evidence-human-warfare-kenya)
discusses a 10,000 BP dig finding violence leaving dozens dead.
Hardly warfare, IMO.

First off, think about warfare in the late neolithic. It's hard.  Yeh,
you've got arrows, maybe ... but the range is only a hundred yards at
best.  That doesn't give you much of an advantage in time before the
otherside reaches you and then, the best weapons are spears and rocks.
Also, not great weapons. I mean, if you want to disable someone with a
spear, you've got to hit the guy a couple times and what if he just
breaks your wooden spear?  Just snaps it in half.  What are you going
to do? And you can't carry very many weapons.  They're heavy and no
one knows how to make good ones.  Or what if he takes one of the few
weapons you can carry with you and stabs you with it.  That's gonna
hurt and you're probably going to get an infection and die.

Have you ever had to kill someone with a rock?  Like a really big
rock?  Can you imagine how grotesque that would be?  If you have to
kill someone with a gun, it's not very hard.  You can sort of look the
other way and squeeze real hard and it's over.  You've done it, one
quick action and you've completed your mistake and you can get on with
guilt and whatnot. But a rock? You really gotta loathe somebody to do
that. Cain't do much with just a rock. You've just got to keep bashing
and bashing and it's really just a raw visceral emotional experience.
It's gonna scar your psyche a bit. And you can't convince dozens of
people to fight each other with rocks. Just not going to happen.

So you see. Warfare's just not a good idea right now. It's hard to
kill people. And like other things at this point, people just aren't
very good at it yet.  There's no armor or anything and there's no
guarantee that you won't get killed yourself.  It's really a coin
toss.  There's no reassuring feeling that your technology is going
give you a nice clean win and therefore, it's also hard to convince
hundreds of others to go along with you.  This brings me to my next
point.

<a name="cooperation-is-moreso-rewarding" />

### [Cooperation is Moreso Rewarding](#cooperation-is-moreso-rewarding)

The world was harsh, unforgiving, but bountiful.  Therefore,
cooperation was much more rewarding than warfare.  You could protect
yourself from risk and harsh conditions by cooperating.  The benefits
reaped from this cooperation for mutual benefit far outweighed those a
group would receive by attacking another group.  And those benefits
would be negligible - there were no resources worth accumulating.

Therefore, there were no resources accumulated.  Most food spoiled,
agriculture was limited.  There was limited trade, except for leather
and obsidian.  Beginning with the copper age, people began trading the
eponymous copper, as it was malleable. But would any of this motivate
conflict?  Hardly...

Without accumulated resources and especially without money, there was
no significant financial benefit for warfare.  What are you going to
do -- murder Abel's cousin and take his sticks? As technology
proliferates, so do accumulated resources.  As small villages crop up,
these advertise the location of accumulated resources.  Suddenly, the
idea of someone having something worth taking steps into the
forefront.  Meaning, if you were a hunter gatherer tribe facing a hard
winter with no food in 20000 BC, you almost never would have
encountered an opportunity to provide for yourself by stealing from
another tribe.  Because people were migratory, with a few exceptions,
it would be very difficult to determine their location.  When people
build towns, they would be vulnerable to theft and raids, which may be
one factor contributing to nomadic societies.

As for an abstracted medium of exchange, the concept of potent
portables hadn't quite evolved, but increasing commerce would soon
demand a more lightweight store of value. Silver wasn't really a
thing, as it had to be separated from lead. Lead would be moderately
useful, but needs to be heated to about 300&#176;C to separate it from
it's constituent materials, commonly including silver. Gold was
exceedingly rare throughout the world, but copper deposits can be
found all through out Anatolia and it's surrounding regions. Tin was
very rare and European deposits were mostly located in Spain,
preventing the discovery of bronze.

<a name="swords-to-plowshares" />

### [Swords to Plowshares](#swords-to-plowshares)

It's not the intended meaning of the phrase, but 'swords to
plowshares' implies the double-edged nature of technology: the same
tech can be used for good or evil.

Metallurgy means people can make more efficient weapons and
agricultural tools. However, it is doubtful that, at least in the
beginning, people thought of what was used as money as a separate
thing called money.  It's just in the nature of copper that it was so
useful to everyone that it embodied **pre-historic liquidity.**
Because everyone knew that everyone needed or wanted metallic stuff,
primarily copper, then they'd anticipate they could use it as a medium
to barter with everyone else. Therefore, as a store of value, copper
was great.  Even if you didn't want it, you knew that someone else
needed it.

Without accumulated resources, controlled trade and money, there is
are no taxes either. Without taxes, there's no dedicated government of
any respectable size.  With no taxes and no government, it's really
hard to systematically coordinate people's lives. And organizing a
large population to start war? Forget about it. When hundreds of
people start colocating in small towns, it's much easier to convince
people to pay taxes and to find prospective soldiers for defense or
war. But without taxes, you're not going to convince anybody to risk
their life in your war, outside perhaps minor skirmishes over
resources.  What's in it for them? Without societies of significant
size, there's no abstraction or specialization of tasks.  War of any
scale means a significant portion of men leaving the fields.  This is
a huge problem for societies with low population.

And to sum up, I'm sure there was localized conflict up to 6,000 BC.
But for the most part, it wasn't organized beyond perhaps a few dozens
or hundreds people. The reason is just that the causes of human
conflict aren't there yet.There's no benefit to war and people just
aren't capable of doing it without significant risk of mortal injury.
There is no resource over-consumption to drive conflict and population
is constrained.

<a name="metallurgy-or-how-hot-can-we-make-fire" />

### [Metallurgy ... Or How Hot Can We Make Fire?](#metallurgy-or-how-hot-can-we-make-fire)

As I've already stated, metallurgy is perhaps the most important
development for mankind, outside of written language. It's important,
as the availability of metals is perhaps the single most limiting
factor for the proliferation of technology. Copper and Bronze Age
civilizations grew and fell based on the geographic distribution of
metal. And so, here you can see the hands of fate: these seemingly
arbitrary factors that determine the course of history.

More than just providing stabby things and protecting oneself from
said stabby things, metal furthers the sense of self, as it provides a
medium for the development of art with permanence. Up to this point,
humanity's been limited to carvings, which deteriorate fast, or
painting with blood and pigments. But metal, that lasts for
generations.  And copper is malleable.  It allows us to create art, to
express and communicate ideas to others.  And because metal lasts,
these ideas can be transferred between generations.

> And this is a really important idea: the persistence of knowledge
> through generations. The length of time that an idea lives on -
> particularly the number of generations. It's not just important as a
> growth factor in the infancy of humanity.  It's also relevant to us
> today.  If you can increase the number of subsequent generations
> from 1 to 2, elements of culture are far more likely to stick
> around.  This is just as relevant today.  In communist regimes, they
> often go for the older generations to eradicate ideas and rewrite
> history.

Once people discovered that metal could melt through the application
of heat, they probably tried burning lots of things.  As villages
became bigger and trade routes extended further, one thing remained
constant: people's interest in burning things remained steadfast.
They wanted to burn more things, exotic things they'd never seen
before were best.

> What would happen if we burned this new green rock?  Would that
> melt?

Hopefully it didn't explode. That was always really cool though, for
sure. You never knew when it was going to happen. Like gambling. You
never know when you'll hit the jackpot, but holy shit. When those
bells and whistles start going off, you know you got something good.

<a name="how-hot-can-ug-make-exothermic-combustion-reaction" />

### [How Hot Can Ug Make Exothermic Combustion Reaction?](#how-hot-can-ug-make-exothermic-combustion-reaction)

Perhaps more important than finding new things to burn was finding
something which could burn hotter.  This opened new doors for
metallurgy.  Some materials became standard candles for measure of
heat and primarily: galena and copper. Galena contains silver and
lead. It must be heated to ~300&#176;C to be separated.  Copper ores
must be heated to around ~1100&#176;C to separate, but fortunately
copper could be found on its own.  Materials like these, who's melting
points became commonly known were incredibly useful for identifying
new techniques for burning things even hotter.  Of course, the melting
points were not known precisely, as there was no standardized means of
measuring temperature.  However, it could be ascertained -- by
trudging through bouts of pyromania and the occasional accidental cave
arson -- that one thing would consistently melt before another and
that melting some materials required specific techniques.

Because there was a economic incentive in converting raw ore to
constituent materials, the development of new smelting techniques was
sought after. They used water to cool rocks, weakening them so they
could be easily smashed to obtain ore and developed many other
interesting techniques to process materials. People who were able to
mine and process ore accumulated valuable materials for trade. Perhaps
more valuable than the metals themselves was the financial incentive
they gave humanity to discover more about our world. This knowledge
was valuable. It's some of the first knowledge worth preserving in
secret ... perhaps.

Materials that burned hotter would be very interesting, perhaps even
oil.  Though we didn't measure joules or calories, the things which
produced heat seemed special. Why couldn't everything do that? While
we would not understand the specific natural laws that determined
chemical properties, some of us would understand that energy was
naturally contained in various materials to varying degrees.  We would
observe that different kinds of woods burned hotter and that fire
burned hotter with increased airflow or when the air was concentrated
and the heat contained.  Therefore, similarly to ordering materials by
their melting point, we would also similarly assess combustible
materials by their energy density, without knowing what that concept
is scientifically.

<a name="ancient-knowledge-of-oil" />

### [Ancient Knowledge of Oil](#ancient-knowledge-of-oil)

And if cultures came into contact with significant amounts of oil,
they would certainly recognize both its energy density and value.  Far
and beyond most other natural materials, oil has an abundance of
energy.  Unlike some other natural materials with high energy density,
it is fairly accessible.  If there was methane present from natural
distillation, then the occasional explosion would make for a good
campfire story. Remember that time Ugg exploded for no fucking reason?

However, crude oil's use would have been greatly restricted by
availability and discoverability. It *may have been* be fairly easy
for alchemists from the middle ages to distill it into a few different
forms, but industrial engineering is not my fort√©. We just wouldn't be
able to consistently find it. Therefore, provided that both its
scarcity and uniquely high energy density were knowable, I conclude
that ancient alchemists would have considered it to be extremely
valuable and chemically similar to other natural oils. YEH IT'S QUITE
A STRETCH LOL. If we did realize its value, we wouldn't have done so
until the first or second millenia BC because we wouldn't have the
alchemic knowledge, nor the ability to know its global scarcity.

> Oh, that oil stuff?  Yeh, we have a ton of it. What do you mean
> you've never seen it before? The stuff burns hotter than anything
> else we know of, ounce for ounce. We can't figure out what to do
> with it though.  We're gonna call it
> [naphtha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naphtha). You swear you've
> never seen it before though? That shit burns in water! No, I'm not
> lying. Yeh, in water, you know, the splashy stuff. Yeh, we got a ton
> of it.

The [Naphtha wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naphtha)
mentions *some* evidence for ancient knowledge of it, including
potential linguistic references, but it's all pretty flimsy.

Mining and metallurgy was also important because they were
remunerative activities that required further development of
specialization and management of logistics.  Agriculture was similar
in this regard.  It was much more useful to develop specialized roles
and distribute work than for each person to do it all themselves.  And
because mining and metallurgy involved the accumulation of large
stores of value, this necessitated leadership.  Someone had to take
charge.  More importantly, that person had to justify why someone
should take charge and prove why it should be them.  Usually, they
hoarded some critical knowledge for themselves, either about the
processes the group required to create value or about their methods of
leadership.

<a name="emergence-of-copper-mining" />

### [Emergence of Copper Mining](#emergence-of-copper-mining)

The earliest evidence of copper mining is in Timna Valley, in southern
Israel, dating back to 7,000 BC to 5,000 BC.  The
[Vinƒça culture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vin%C4%8Da_culture)
culture, that occupied the Balkans in the 5th and 6th millenia, was
one of the first that practiced copper metallurgy. The largest of
their settlements would have accommodated several thousand
people. Their culture produced the widely known
[TƒÉrtƒÉria tablets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%C4%83rt%C4%83ria_tablets),
which IMO, are not legit.  Or at least, not indicative of written
language.  At most, they indicate proto-language, but there's a lot of
controversy surrounding these, including the fact that the clay
tablets were baked after discovery in 1961 to "preserve" them,
preventing carbon dating. They easily could have kept samples for
carbon dating.

<a name="the-origin-of-religion" />

# [The Origin of Religion](#the-origin-of-religion)

TODO: reference nature of god (mention that writing this post sparked
me to write that one)

Without widespread, organized religion, there were no other
ideological causes for warfare at this point in history. Without the
cultural infrastructure to spread religion or without the need for a
specialized class of people who can afford to hang out and tend to
religious affairs, religion had a tough time gaining a foothold.
There's no mechanism for organized religion to spread and it offers no
benefits in the late neolithic, nor was there any cultural apparatus
to enforce religious belief.

<a name="what-is-god-to-you" />

### [What Is God, To You?](#what-is-god-to-you)

At this point, religion was mostly limited to tribal belief systems
that attempted to explain natural phenomena or preserve knowledge
useful for survival. Ideas become attached to commonly experienced
phenomena, activities and signs via semiotics. Similar to the fluid
nature of language discussed in part one, religious beliefs were also
ephemeral.  That is, they came and went.  No one had a concept of a
singular, universal god. That concept is something like the eventual
zenith of religion. Instead, they sought to attribute natural
phenomena to deities in an attempt to understand them.

Gods in ancient times were perceived so differently than they are now,
that I would say we should use a different word to accurately describe
the meaning.  They were moreso a means of organizing knowledge about
the world when there were no other abstractions that could be used as
touchstones. In contrast, in more recent times, we have personified
gods and deities. Instead of being a lens through which to understand
the world, they morphed into all-powerful beings who demand our
obedience.  And why?  Because it's useful as a tool of leadership.

<a name="religion-as-survival-of-the-most-empowering" />

### [Religion as Survival of the Most Empowering](#religion-as-survival-of-the-most-empowering)

It was only when one belief system conferred significant evolutionary
advantage, that a religion would take off and become widespread. That
requires both cultural and informational evolutionary advantages, but
not genetic. This means that the belief system had significant growth
vectors and more importantly, it offered some benefit to the
society. There was some significant demonstrative or believable value
in adhering to this system.

Organized religion quickly enters the picture, as soon as there is
enough of a stable, localized economy to warrant further social
stratification, leaders begin creating belief systems as a means of
socialization for new generations.  As people witness more and more
phenomena they can't explain, they naturally seek explanation.  And
the people who can explain, especially those who can harness said
inexplicable phenomena, begin to enjoy their new found power. This
shaman or priest class begins to understand that it doesn't just
matter how they explain things, or whether the explanations are even
true at all.  It turns out, for the most part, the only thing that
matters is whether it appears that people believe their explanations.
At this point, the priest class begins to separate itself from the
rest of society.

This happens so often with religions, by the way. There are many cases
of a religion preaching openness and offering to teach others how to
access their divine spark.  They preach that, through them, their
followers can come to understand the nature of the universe and come
to know God. Then, typically after a one or two generations, the true
knowledge of the religion is esoterically sealed away from the masses
and only accessible after a lifetime of piety as a priest. The priest
class uses their system of stratification to lock away the truth for
themselves or for protection of some divine secrets, but typically to
maintain or create power. In doing so, they prevent most common people
from obtaining true spiritual freedom.  Instead they create a
mechanism whereby they sell access to a placebo for spirituality,
acting as gatekeepers who prevent all but a few carefully filtered
adherents from ever knowing the truth.

<a name="what-is-the-knowledge-of-good-and-evil" />

### [What Is The Knowledge of Good and Evil?](#what-is-the-knowledge-of-good-and-evil)

To me, the knowledge of good and evil is not simply the knowledge of
the existence of good and the existence of evil. That is, this doesn't
represent man's discovery of evil or sin.  Neither is it really the
loss of our innocence, per se. Instead, the knowledge of good and
evil is the knowledge of _both_ *how to use* **good** and **how to
use** *evil* in order to accomplish one's goals, and especially in the
sense that one becomes aware of how others will perceive an
action.

The more abstract our knowledge of the world grew, the more that
abstract knowledge could be used to confer an advantage over others
for good or ill.  Fairly quickly, those with significant knowledge
began to understand just how powerful both knowledge and information
were.  So they learned to horde it because anything leaking from the
priest or ruling class was incredibly dangerous to themselves.  So
therefore, they designed a system to control the populace by
controlling the perception of what was good and what was evil. These
same people feared technological innovations because they understood
how to maintain the status quo, but were afraid of what they didn't
understand.

And once humanity had proverbially eaten of the fruit of the tree of
knowledge, we learned how to control others.  We developed an economy
based on specialization and created layers of social stratification,
but we inadvertently created a world that no longer offered abundance.
In essence, we built a house of cards that required that people to be
imbued with desire for material to be compelled to contribute to the
system.  The further we retreated from nature, the more we were
allured by the promise of completely escaping its harsh reality.  Yet,
the more complicated our societies became, the more disparate the
conditions were for various social strata.

<a name="the-deluges" />

# [The Deluge(s)](#the-deluges)

Almost every culture has a story about a catastrophic flood that
nearly destroyed humanity. Many of these also feature a Noah-like
figure, whom the divine had influenced to craft an ark and preserve
animal life. IMO, the animals moreso symbolize the preservation of
culture and knowledge here, whereas the ark symbolizes the preparation
of a small, but wise group of people.  In many of the stories, such as
Gilgamesh and the Sumerian flood epic, the flood is presented as a
conspiracy of the gods against humanity, who is only saved through the
disobedience of one of those gods.  Obviously, the myth can't be
presented in that way in Abrahamic religions, as there is only one
God.

These floods significantly slowed our cultural development, as
they typically knocked out the most fertile and likely to be
development settlements: those located around water. The events would
destroy most of the culture that had developed in a region and only
the people far outside of irrigable land would survive.

In this world, these flooding events were rare, especially
regionally. But they were so destructive that man would mythologize to
ensure no one could ever forget. Any history was limited by the
persistence of memory. The survivors developed these myths as a means
to ensure that future generations would be prepared to preserve
culture in case of another widespread disaster. The survivors of an
event like this might not have been able to preserve what was lost,
but they were well aware of the scope of what was lost. Perhaps the
story of Noah is a little more true than is comfortable for scientific
types.

<a name="monolithic-paroxysm-of-civilizational-collapse" />

### [Monolithic Paroxysm of Civilizational Collapse](#monolithic-paroxysm-of-civilizational-collapse)

The response became an obsession with preventing such loss of culture,
which wasn't only experienced through the wrath of God, but also
commonly experienced through limited warfare.  Those who built
something and accumulated resources worth envy would need to develop
adequate defense against their society being dismantled, physically
and metaphysically. One of the tools against this dismantlement is
the development of myth, which ensures that cultural archetypes and
programs survive, even if the majority of your buildings and people
don't.

Another tool against this is simply building things so big, people
couldn't tear them apart.  This is why Egyptians entombed their prized
possessions and designed them to be hidden for millennia.  I believe
that the desire to begin building monoliths was, in part, inspired by
the pain of losing everything time and time again. To flood and to
warfare.  The power to control history by dismantling other cultures
or ideas would already be well experienced in various levels of
society.

For developing mans understanding of higher-order phenomenona,
architecture was relevatory. The third part of this series will
discuss this in more detail, but before man could modify his
surroundings, it's hard to say that death would have the same effect,
in a psychological and sociological sense. Further, IMO, at no time
have the things which are most important to our world been most
prevelant as the millenium during which architecture develops, which
varies from region to region. At the emergence of architecture, man
becomes aware of phenomenoma all but forever forgotten, once life
becomes significantly more sophisticated.

<a name="unbound-by-a-sinful-past-drowned-by-the-mists-of-time" />

### [Unbound by a Sinful Past Drowned by the Mists of Time](#unbound-by-a-sinful-past-drowned-by-the-mists-of-time)

An idea's been floating around in my mind as of late:
- the idea that forgetting our sinful past via civilizational reset
  may have been helpful for mankind in the longrun (i may have already
  covered this)
- vanished civilization as a fresh start for a humanity who would
  otherwise be burdened by their own sinfulness
  - where are my notes on this?
  - note that in the myth of Gilgamesh, the gods conspired to create
    the flood to destroy mankind. It was through the disobedience of
    one god (who overheard?) that man was warned.

- (move this elsewhere)
- ![sea levels after last glacial maximum]()
- ![NOAA Ocean Bathymetry Map]

### Persian Gulf

- myth of Gilgamesh & Dilmun

Starting around 10,000 B.C. and around the time that the Sahara was
forcing outward migration by transforming into a desert, the Persian
Gulf began flooding and filling in. This conclusion is based on NOAA's
ocean bathymetry maps and sea levels before the Copper Age. There was
likely at least one completely unexpected catastrophe, where low-lying
regions below sea-level were flooded as a natural dam burst. Major
flooding may have recurred cyclically after that, as the waterline
ancient (proto-Euprates) river basin gradually consumed the Persian
Gulf. The depth is greatest at the mouth of the Persian Gulf and
lowest around Bahrain and at the western and southwestern
coastline. The gulf was mostly filled in by 5,000 B.C.

- as the Persian Gulf filled in, the (proto-Euphrates) delta was still
  marshy.
  - the region between Kuwait and Bahrain would be where people would
    settle, as the Gulf filled up. if there was small-scale irrigate
    and agriculture at this time, it would have occured there.
    - was there agriculture? did they have kilns, pottery and ceramics?
    - there are likely many sites lost to humanity in this region,
      though the saltwater would destroy mostly everything.
  - as the Gulf completely filled up, the traditional Fertile Crescent
    would become much more appealing, so the people in the former
    Persian Gulf would begin migrating inwards towards Kuwait,
    bringing their knowledge with them.
  - at the same time, this more limited Fertile Crescent would provide
    lesser space. therefore, the rate of idea exchange would increase,
    as well as the rates of commerce and conflict. This is similar to
    the inverse of a diaspora, where random ideas had developed and
    this minor geographic shift would force the ideas to be brought
    inwards.

flooding of the Persian gulf during this time
- probably happened at least once as an unexpected catastrophe
  - then again, periodically every few hundred years
  - these repeated experiences would have been catastrophic to early
    civilization
  - the pain of losing everything would have been seared into our
    psyche
    - IMO, this pain served as an impetus to build monolithic works
      - if the work was big enough it would not be lost to catastrophe
      - or disassembled by invaders
    - by building these works, ancient leaders hoped that their
      culture
      - would never again be completely lost
      - thus the origin behind the search for immortality by Egyptians

<a name="the-hypothetical-black-sea-outburst-flood" />

### [The Proposed Black Sea Outburst Flood](#the-hypothetical-black-sea-outburst-flood)

There's a proposed major flood around the Black Sea between the the
6th and 8th millenium, known as the
[Black Sea Deluge Hypothesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Sea_deluge_hypothesis)
Until recently, the Black Sea was mostly freshwater, with no
connection through the Bosporus. It's likely this is a cyclical
phenomenon. Over millenia with no connection to the Meditteranean
during ice ages, the water level drops dramatically. The cyclical
nature of this phenomenon makes it a bit hard to measure and predict
exactly how the flooding occurs. A breach of the isthmus near Istanbul
would lead to catastrophic flooding. In Turkey, there are numerous 8th
millenium settlements like
[√áatalh√∂y√ºk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%87atalh%C3%B6y%C3%BCk),
and I'm guessing that there were many human settlements on the coast
of the Black Sea, especially near the Danube River and other inlet
streams. There were many Copper Age settlements within 1,000 miles of
this area, so a demonstrated lack of settlements identified around
this Black Sea area would be very interesting. After all, freshwater
means fish, thirsty wildlife and simple irrigation.

- there's a site what may be river erosion present in the bathymetry
  of the Black Sea, which may be a former Danube river delta.

Another explanation is that 8th millinium glacial flooding near the
Caspian diverted large amounts of freshwater into the Black Sea. The
most telltale sign of flooding from the Sea of Marmara would be
diluvium near the Bosporus, extending into and beyond the extent of
the original freshwater Black Sea. Another key indicator could be
variations in mineral concentrations between regions of the originally
freshwater and seawater regions of the Black Sea. One study, which
I'll reference soon, compared deposits of cellular life near the mouth
of the strait with those found on the seafloor.

TODO: reference this study

IMO, it'd be very hard for the water to naturally breach the Bosporus
Strait when it was still an Isthmus. The Romans dug canals that were
around a hundred miles long. Today the strait is only 17 miles
long. It averages 65m deep If this was a natural geological feature,
it should have cyclically flooded and reconnected several times in the
past million years. It is not likely that it would have only once
occured naturally in recent geological history. And thus, the Bosporus
Strait should exhibit evidence of a geological structure that has
flooded multiple times. As thin as the Bosporus Isthmus would have
been, it would be more likely to flood in multiple places if it
flooded multiple times. This could be another indication of whether
the even happened multiple times.

Perhaps an earthquake in or around the Bosporus weakened the soil
there, or created a tsunami that, either of which could create the
opportunity for the isthmus to flood. The
[North Anatolian fault](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Anatolian_Fault)
runs around that region, so it's possible.

![North Anatolian Fault](/img/posts/2016-10-26-a-speculative-history-of-humanity-calamity-echoes-through-our-psyche)

- earthquake in, near bosphorus?
  - possible tsunami that weakened the soil there?
  - sea of marmara was landlocked up to 4000 BC

One last observation is the presence of an underwater brine river in
the Black Sea, originating from the Bosporus Strait and flowing into
the Black Sea, forming what would be the worlds 6th largest river by
volume.  Looking at the depth maps of the Marmara Sea, the Bosporus
and the Black Sea, this seems strange at first.  The Bosporus is 65m
deep on average.  Why would cold water flow up to 65 meters from a
depth of +1000m and into the Black Sea.  On further reading, there is
a warm current flowing in the opposite direction from the Black Sea
into the Marmara.  This current likely draws cold, salty water up
by convection as it enters the Marmara.

- another possible source for flow through the bosporus is the
  difference in salinity
  - more saline water is pulled in... maybe
  - http://www.crpg.cnrs-nancy.fr/local/cache-vignettes/L500xH186/Capture_d_ecran_2012-08-27_a_16-32-58-a6eba.jpg
  - https://clasticdetritus.files.wordpress.com/2010/08/bosphorous.jpg

[Naratuk: warfare from 10,000 BC](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/jan/20/stone-age-massacre-offers-earliest-evidence-human-warfare-kenya)

transition from outburst floods

IMO, this one can't be conclusively shown to be true, from my amateur
take after some reading. I want it to be true because it would explain
a lot.  And there were definitely ancient peoples in the area,

... rewrite that ^^^

... and maybe get rid of this vvvv

using google maps, i can see the effect of erosion from an ancient danube riverbed
- there doesn't seem to be much undersea erosion around the rest of the black sea
  - except for the area leading from the Bosporus strait
- at least, i think.  i don't know what i'm looking for and the data is horribly blurred
  - also, i should see this erosion closer to the source, the Bosporus
  - however, i really think if there were a recent outburst flood,
    - there should be diluvian erosion patterns here

- this is definitely way on the pseudoscience end, but ...
  - the Bosporus Strait is only 17 miles long and averages at 65m deep
    - i'm not really sure what tools it would take to use.  this is the major issue.
    - but if there were tools available, they could have started from them middle
      - or really just dug outward
  - would it be impossible for this to have been one of the first engineering projects?
    - for comparison, the Suez canal is 120 miles long
    - the Panama canal is 50 miles long
  - there were even ancient canal projects:
    - many roman canal projects were of similar depth and breadth
    - canal of the pharoahs: over 50 miles long
      - i'll admit, the wiki page is a bit questionable
      - it doesn't really address whether or not the project was every completed
  - and i can tell, i'm really just trying to make this work,
    - although, turkey and the areas surrounding really was the center of civilization
- but it also matches up with sections from the Gilgamesh and Sumerian flood myths,
  - stating that the gods conspired to cause the flood
  - however, these myths were definitely centered around the Persian Gulf
    - and around Dilmun in particular, which seems to have occupied Bahrain and
      the area beyond Shatt-al-Arab river, the Ur-Schatt river basin
      in the ancient Persian Gulf

- what are we not seeing? in observations of discovered settlements
  from 10,000 - 5,000 B.C., what's missing, when viewed through a
  statistical lens? Where should people have been, even though it
  appears we haven't discovered evidence of it and why?

<a name="glacial-outburst-flooding" />

### [Glacial Outburst Flooding](#glacial-outburst-flooding)

Could man have predicted such events? Many of these major floods were
not weather events, but geological events. There were many glacial
outburst floods from 15,000 B.C. to 5,000 B.C., which will be
described herein. Could these events be preceded by seismic activity
which would displace otherwise stable glacial arrangements? If these
events were common enough to be recognized and remembered as a type of
event by man of that time, could he implement a prehistoric warning
network for impending glacial outburst tumult. One must remember that
the most attractive places to live would be the most dangerous in
terms of these events. Seaside and riverside settlements would be the
most endangered by bursts of flooding, but these are the exact
settlements which led to sophistication for humanity. Therefore, a
system for observing the status of glaciers would have been useful,
but it's hard to imagine early man being capable of much in this
regard. Could man have speculated that, within one or two generations
that an outburst flood, large or small, might be imminent?

<a name="lake-agassiz-glacial-outburst-flood" />

### [Lake Agassiz Glacial Outburst Flood](#lake-agassiz-glacial-outburst-flood)

After the last glacial maximum, Lake Agassiz was a body of meltwater
spread over Canada and was much larger than all five great lakes
combined. It was massive. Bodies of water like this would build up
over time and burst violently, as ice weakened and a frozen, natural
dam burst. After the last ice age, this started happening around
12,000 B.C. and it originally drained northward, but shifted to
bursting southward millenia later. After bursting, the freshwater
would form small lakes with high surface area, giving way to higher
rates of evaporation, and thus, this would begin to cool the northern
hemisphere, but increasing the sea level. Lake Agassiz burst for the
last time around 6,200 B.C. and resulted in calamatous flooding west
of the Appalachians. Such immediate bursts of flooding implies that
the sea level occasionally rose in such a way that was viscerally
noticeable to mankind. This was in addition to a steady constant
increase in sea level. Again, such calamatous events would be rare,
but wouldn't be soon forgotten. Similar events happened around the
Caucasus and both north and south of the Himalayans as well.

<a name="global-warming-is-a-ten-thousand-year-trend" />

### [Global Warming is a Ten Thousand Year Trend](#global-warming-is-a-ten-thousand-year-trend)

We no longer see events of this scale, nor have we in millenia, but
it's part of a warming trend that continues today.  Science takes a
preventative view on global warming because it can measure the change
that it fears humanity is introducing. Business fears limiting the
scale of industry, especially when game theory and economics imply
that doing so might be futile. The burden of some limitation of
industry globally to offset carbon dioxide might actually be good for
the global economy as a means of stabalization, but pollution is a
much greater problem. IMO, the rate of increase in average ocean
temperature is merely an indication of pollution.

Global warming and all the ecological changes it brings are natural.
Yet, the other major danger is misallocation of agricultural resources
in the face of significant long-term weather pattern changes. For
example, if there wasn't enough water in the Ogalala aquifer, then
we'll experience another drought and dustbowl. Grain and wheat are
major American exports, but the greater risk is that massive changes
to ocean currents would cause changes in distribution of rainfall and
thus, the resulting misallocation of agricultural resources would
result in famine and drought. This would occur at a time when tensions
around the world are already high and would result in chaos. Fuck
carbon levels. That's only an indication of the problem. The real
problem is economic and political chaos as a result of mother nature
spun out of control. Ever dealt with hungry people? Yeh, not
fun. Hungry people are crazy.

<a name="global-warming-yields-economic-opportunity" />

### [Global Warming Yields Economic Opportunity](#global-warming-yields-economic-opportunity)

Global warming isn't all bad. It may seem counterintuitive, but global
warming brings significant economic opportunity in addition to all the
projects needed to offset carbon and to clean up pollution. My
personal problem with these projects is that they mostly only make
sense if they are government-funded. It requires tax-funded government
spending, which requires that industry offset the costs of such
projects. Just because the government can fund it and it means jobs
for people, doesn't mean it adds value to the economy in the same way
as (TODO: authentic) industry.

However, the Paris climate treaty, once ratified, offers countries
incentives to offset carbon dioxide, which can bring economic
opportunity to those countries which develop technology to dissipate
CO2. This could equate to economic stabalization, which the global
economy would be well-served to appreciate in the age of the
Singularity. Trust me, the idea of a carbon tax makes me a bit
nauseous as a conservative. I have a lot of opinions to offer and
there are a lot of opportunities for those in the know on climate
change policy. We have to do something about climate change and there
are pro's and con's for industry, even with a carbon tax.

<a name="bracing-for-a-geoeconomic-power-shift" />

### [Bracing for a Geoeconomic Power Shift](#bracing-for-a-geoeconomic-power-shift)

There's an upcoming powershift. You can see the roots of change in the
South China Sea. Why is this region so important? The South China Sea
connects the Far East to the burgeoning economy of India, which is
about to develop. IMO, India is different than China in that it's
developing at a slightly different time and is less likely to lean on
external demand for industry as it powers through it's next phase of
industrialization. However, China's own economy is slowing down. Or at
least its GDP growth rate is. It's hard to expect double digit GDP
growth rates for four decades, so that's impressive enough as it is,
but it means that China needs to find demand for its industry via
external consumerism and trade will increase through the South China
Sea around Malaysia and to India, which is why China is asserting that
it has exclusive rights to the EEZ that the Hague ruled on for the
Phillipines.

There's an alternate scenario that might play out. Some of that
East-to-West global trade proceeding through the Panama Canal could
shift to proceed through Arctic sea lanes, which provide a much faster
trek to Europe and some parts of Canada. Global trade is going to
completely shift, but it's very difficult to predict precisely how. It
really depends on how humanity shifts towards accumulating resources.

The most valuable regions of geography are always centers of
trade. That's why isreal and the Middle East were always so important
throughout history. Control and tax trade through the middle east and
your civilization is set for life. The existence and colonization of
the New World changed all that. We're approaching a similar, but
larger global economic power shift. See? Read far enough into these
articles and you get a cookie!

How is the global economy going to shift this time? That's incredibly
difficult to predict. Two things are certain: global economic shift
will occur much, much faster than previously in history. And secondly,
barring civilizational collapse, humanity will begin to pull in
resources from space. At first, those resources will arrive from
rockets and via conventional space travel means. So this makes the
equatorial regions of the globe more convenient centres of trade,
since those will be the logistic centres, at least for sending
resources to space. Since the infrastructure will already be located
towards the equatorial region, it's likely where space-based resources
will enter the global economy.

The Arctic and Bering Strait are also incredibly strategic because, as
the ice melts, resources in Greenland become available. No, we don't
want to encourage this to happen faster, but it's pretty much
inevitable, even if the ice doesnt melt. And that's a lot of
freshwater, by the way. Greenland was formerly located elsewhere and,
AFAIK, the petrol reserves haven't been tapped, unless maybe space
lizards, but probably not. Further still, there are several
mountainous regions in Greenland, especially right there at the
top. Just trust me. Mountains sometimes means heavy elements are
pushed up from the Earth's core. Possibly rare earth elements? Who
knows. Boom. Cookies.

What's certain is that the Northern sea routes do save distance and
fuel cost, so state and naval control over these routes will be
valuable. The question is how valuable. These arctic routes could just
be a Red Herring and completely worthless. It really depends on how
trends unfold economically and geopolitically over the next decade and
over the next century. What's crucial is for America to employ a smart
strategy to retain and gain influence during this geopolitical and
global economic shift over the next decade to prepare us for the rest
of the 21st century. So America needs to wisely and intensely research
these opportunities to best decide where to focus our energy.

<a name="a-brief-foray-into-hypothetical-canadian-canal-projects"

### [A Brief Foray into Hypothetical Canadian Canal Projects](#a-brief-foray-into-hypothetical-canadian-canal-projects)

For example, one project could include Artic sea routes that are shown
to save time and cost.  Several Canadian canals *could* improve this
to complete or shorten the Northwestern Passage or entry into US via
Lake Superior, but it's unlikely. The problem with long canals is that
it's really hard to build them deep enough. If you can't build them
deep enough, the maximum barge size becomes a logistic
bottleneck. Water displacement and what not. It's complicated.

Also, we could invest infrastructure in displacing melting freshwater
before it needs to be desalinization, which is a major bottleneck for
agriculture. Whether countries have large underground aquifers,
dependable seasonal meltwater or other sources of freshwater
determines how much local agriculture they will support. As
Californians are well aware, there's a drought in Los Angelos, since
the Lake supplying freshwater to LA has dried up. This is causing
additional environmental damage as well, since the dry lakebed
contains pesticides which are now being blown around as dust in the
winds.

Nature is complicated and a ounce of wisdom goes a long way. Those
local economies like Los Angelos are therefore dependent on
desalinization and imported food. Further, they can't really export
food. Desalinization is expensive in terms of water. This isn't a huge
problem for California, since it's part of America's robustly
developed economy, but dependency on desalinization is an interesting
dimension of the climate change debate, especially Carbon
Tax. Freshwater and arable land become crucial resources in the 21st
century. These have been mostly taken for granted in the latter part
of the 20th century.

# The Book of Enoch

- describes Noah as an Albino
- the parts the describe the world before noah describe a massive
  change in bodies of water, that seemed to lead to the destruction of
  "kings" who did not anticipate the event.
  - the calamity involves large amounts of water and ~molten fire~ and
    a characteristic smell of sulphur


# (Atlantis, Lemuria, Hyperborea)

Countless myths concern lost cities, once great, but now sunken into
the sea or otherwise forgotten.

### Doggerland

TODO: map of Doggerland

(legends of) A developed culture, usually fairly advanced that lay in
the far north.  The Greeks and Romans called called it Hyperborea. Or
perhaps that was their name for Iceland and Greenland? Yet, Doggerland
fits many of the mythic descriptions of Hyperborea or Atlantis.  It
was violently flooded by a tsunami triggered by a massive glacial
event called the Storegga Slide in 6,200 B.C.

- knocked out by tsunami (caused by the Storegga Slide around 6200 BC)
  - this is probably not the only time a seaside glacier collapsed,
    triggering tsunami wipingout swaths of seaside civilization
  - however, the rest of the developing world was geographically
    shielded from tsunami's
    - generated by glacial collapse
    - the Mediterranean, definitely not at risk
    - nor would southern india
- flooding of the english channel
  - how would the Storegga Slide have affected this?
- original settlements in england/ireland?

### Dilmun and the Ancient Persian Gulf River Basin

- lost city near Bahrain.
  - mention the myth from Gilgamesh

include pics from Kurt Lambeck paper (1995)
- "Shoreline reconstructions for the Persian Gulf since the last
  glacial maximum"

#### Diasporic response to gradual flooding of the Persian gulf

  - during this time, the Tigris & Euphrates would have flowed into
    Persian Gulf area
    - possibly merging before/around reaching the area now known as
      Kuwait
    - thus, the fertile crescent before 5,000 BC would have been
      nearly twice as large
    - and the closest area to the Persian Gulf would have been the
      most attractive place to live, there
      - this is because it becomes the most ideal port connecting the
        entire Fertile Cresent river basin
  - people would have been split into at least three groups following
    the catastrophe(s)
    - people would follow the region along the coast of Iran up
      towards the Indus Valley
      - these people would eventually found Harrapa, the Indus Valley
        Civilization (ICV)
    - another group of people would retreat, again and again, further
      up the Persian Gulf
      - as water repeatedly destroyed coastal civilizations.
      - the changing coastline would become noticeable and would
        visibly move
        - these changes would occur over the course of two to three
          generations
        - and measuring these changes would require marking the
          coastline
          - likely using large stone objects
          - these are also useful as constants for marking/measuring
            objects in the skyline
    - this group of people would follow the changing Tigris/Euphrates
      delta
  - a third group would begin occupying higher and higher ground
    - along the coastline from Kuwait to Oman to Yemen


### notes about seafare and trade


- It's thought that humanity has been in the seas since before the end
  of the ice age.
  - hypothesis for how humans reached australia?
- mention how seafare contributes to geography, astronomy & mythology

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_maritime_history#Maritime_prehistory

The importance of geography in the early world.
- surveying (especially elevation, during a chaotic time)
- astrology as a coordinate system for locating oneself
- mythology as a means of preserving knowledge
  - but also for fostering a purpose in a violent world with lots of
    suffering
  - and for cultivating trans-generational strategies for improving
    the human condition

sumerian creation myth (1600 BC)

- babylonians tracked jupiter with sophisticated geometrical math
  - http://arstechnica.com/science/2016/01/babylonians-tracked-jupiter-with-sophisticated-geometrical-math/
  - Used geometry that hints at calculus 1,500 years before Europeans.

development of mythology
    - gilgamesh

- could ancient people anticipate the water level *maximum* by looking
  at erosion and understanding basic geology
  - it would be fairly trivial (in some areas) to look and see that
    water and erosion had once reached a specific maximum height
  - so would they know where the water level rise was going to end or
    not? (it would also be rising at a noticeable rate from 8,000 bc
    to 6,000 bc. at least, noticeable over the course of 25-50 years)

- is there a variant of hemophilia caused by the body's ability to
  create omega-3's?
  - is there an gene in mammals that does this?
    - if there are any mammals whose bodies can create omega-3's, then
      it's imaginable that this gene is turned off in most humans, but
      some may have an epigenetic adaptation that turns it back on
  - this should be a fairly straightforward question to answer, but i
    have no idea
    - if it is true, this would lead to some groups of humans having
      much longer lives than others and being a bit smarter.
      - in prehistory and early history, this would be a major
        advantage over others because this group of humans would
        usually have 2 - 3 generations of family alive simultaneously,
      - whereas most other humans at the time would have only 1 - 1.5
        generations
      - also, this group would be a bit smarter
  - this is a really dumb idea that is pure speculation..........
    - but if there were any major adaptation that dependably extended
      the lifetime of one group of people over another, this would
      present a major evolutionary advantage in early history


- some ancient species evolved until they reached the singularity,
  erasing all traces of their existence using nanobots.
  - then they terraformed the earth and laid the seeds of apocalypse
    underneath the last ice they knew would melt once the next
    intelligent species reached an industrial age and technological
    maturity...
  - then they peaced out, embarking on an astral journey to smoke weed
    amongst the stars
