
# General Notes

- i will refer to the time "I met Tatiana Maslany" as "Hack4CO"
  because that was the hackathon that I believe they were trying to
  lure me away from to go to comic con ... or to just spend time with
  me. the "Orphan Black" people were interested in me because I had
  insights into biotech and general tech trends
  - however, our meeting was NOT spontaneous. it was arranged, but not
    unspontaneous, per se, since it felt natural ... then again, she
    is an actress, LOL. I'm not sure whether she knew she was going to
    meet me.

### I've never been able to talk about this with ANYONE

I HAVE NEVER HAD A SINGLE STRAIGHTFORWARD CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS WITH
ANYONE FOR MORE THAN FIVE MINUTES. and only maybe 5 such conversations
with other people about this series of events. EVERYONE IN MY LIFE
AVOIDS THIS SUBJECT LIKE THE PLAGUE, except that i know that so many
people know about it. I, however, have ZERO IDEA what they know about
it.

So far, this set of events has mostly served as a means for cruel,
vindictive people to gain my trust by referring to key phrases and
events throughout this three-day period -- not that everyone has been
that way. The malicious people know that i'm paranoid about people
labeling me as crazy if I told them about what was happening to my
mind. So they knew they could talk to me about it without having me
talk much about the conversations we had. That I would react in this
way would be easy to know if you had surveillance on me.

I get the feeling that something which was supposed to be very good
ended up going horribly wrong. It might be caused by the "American
GIT-NONE" curse that hangs itself over my head: nothing good can come
my way. I'm a targeted individual. if something good crosses my path
or if someone even becomes connected to me -- in a manner similar to
organized crime threats -- they are threatened in
clear-but-no-certain-terms that they if they even so much as remember
what happens to me after they cross my path, they will be crucified
too. I am never given any indication of what i've done or what i could
do to improve my situation.

needless to say, anything connected to this situation is so fucked up
that it has mentally scarred me for life. I have wasted so much time
trying to figure out what happened, only to realized that i was being
used as a punching bag for intelligence training in COINTELPRO-style
disruption tactics -- PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE -- which what made me fly
off the handle in late 2017.

if i was lucky, some gov't spook would flick a goddamn scrabble vowel
at my face (NSL) so i'd practically wear a goddamn 'A' tattoed on my
face everywhere i go. everyone knows what's happening to me, but no
one will say anything, which is insane. The ones who humiliate me by
using the most knowledge of these events in gaslighting tactics seem
to have been programmed with false information and a lot of it.

Oh, and i was encouraged via the memories to not write anything
down. i had hidden a thumb-drive with notes written down on it after
the first few months. since i knew i was on surveillance, i
counter-signaled to make it seem like i'd thrown it away. i sat on
that for a year. i had been sternly warned by Paul Vasquez -- "not
that time, not that place" -- who told me not to publish information
related to the events. he said this to me in a rare, clear manner when
i was writing a short-story about the events, as if to say: don't even
fucking write Denver and 2013 in that obfuscated short story. shortly
after that, i published the set of notes i kept, along with the COPY
of an EMAIL i had sent my FAMILY in late 5/2015 -- this contained the
most ORIGINAL synopsis that i had written about the course of
events. MY FAMILY NEVER COMMENTED ON IT because i believe they have
been threatened.

### Publishing [this synopsis on 8/16/2017 from an original email written on March/April 2015](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-08-17-that-time-i-repressed-my-own-memories-for-love.html)

- it was an email to my family sent at the end of May in 2015.
- but it was almost copy-pasted from a YCombinator application in
  March/April 2015, which i submitted as a joke to give an indication
  of my personality.
  - i originally wanted to keep everything fairly tight-lipped to
    constrain the amount of the story that would become locked down by
    writing.

i did so not from OSX, but from my old 2011 Macbook Pro laptop RUNNING
ON A TERMINAL IN BIOS. this was because I was worried about having the
data file on the USB corrupted via an ad hoc, event-driven, on-demand
network hack that would watching for any USB-DISK with that ID or
filenames on it. things had been going on for about 18 months at this
point and IT WAS HELL. people were using gaslighting to exacerbate the
psychological side effects of my repressed memories.

when i went to get a psychiatrist, i was referred to one who had an
office I had once visited before with a friend before we left for DEMF
in 2010. He specifically worked with autistic kids, but knew about
what had happened and had a private practice which did NOT accept my
insurance. furthermore, i knew that any notes of interactions we had
would be trapped within the confines of his office, if those notes
were not completely devoid of evidence anyways. he specifically
triggered deja-vu the instant that we sat down to talk, or at least,
it just happened-to-happen. i instantly regretted paying this guy $150
of my moms money to set up a relationship, which almost locked me into
his services. he immediately looked at me like he *knew* i was a
horrid racist piece of shit and literally the first words out of his
mouth predicated the interactions on this basis, poisoning the frame
of our first therapeutic session. that is terrible. i am sorry, i do
not know what this doctor had heard -- OR WHAT ANYONE ELSE HAS HEARD
WHO CANNOT TALK TO ME -- but that was incredibly unprofessional. I can
read people like people would never, ever know.

GEE... HMMM WHY IS IT AGAIN THAT I DO NOT TRUST PSYCHIATRISTS AND
MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS?

Anyways, when i first published that article on 8/17/2016, 18 months
after everything happened, THE VERY DAY AFTER, i was cleaning my
2011 macbook pro laptop keyboard and my mom chased me around the house
with a bottle of Pine Sol and asked me five times if i wanted to use
it. i did. barely. IT RUINED THE LAPTOP KEYBOARD. I believe this might
have been retalliation. I cannot believe the shit that happens to me.

I HAVE FUCKING MUNCHAUSEN BY PROXY. My mom wants everyone to think i'm
crazy, so she can contain me like unwanted afterbirth trapped like a
dog in the cage she keeps me in -- her "loving" basement. She will do
anything financial for me -- TO KEEP ME HERE -- but never anything
that actually makes a difference. You can set your fucking watch by
it. And i get the feeling she's been threatened to do so.

The reason i've held onto these details for so long is precisely
because that's how you beat a mexican-standoff-style conspiracy
against yourself when you don't have money to run & fight another day
or to ever put yourself in a more reasonable social/financial
position. You get information; you hoard it; you slowly turn up the
volume; and you give those fucks running surveillance and HUMINT on
you the ability to lie -- AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN. And if
they want to, they can keep fucking going.

But you just keep turning up the heat, like a chef cooking a frog,
which is EXACTLY the metaphor they used to threaten me by insinuation,
letting me know i was trapped, after "things took a turn for the
worst" -- se the notes below. There is so much bullshit going on in my
life, but everyone looks the other way. well fucking not see this:
whoever's doing this too me doesn't even have the spine to ever be
able to cuckold.

why did you ever do this to me? what did i do? what do people think
that i did that i would ever deserve any of this?! EVER?!! fuck you
assholes, you couldn't ever let me have two and a half nickels to rub
together. yeh well our currency is ruined, so why don't you shove a
colonial half cent up Obama's ass.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Half_cent_(United_States_coin)

### Meeting Rob Herman in April 2013

- I had met someone that I believe *may be* related to Tatiana in the
  week before Hack4CO. his name was Rob Herman and he kept trying to
  get me to do the HTML Web Design for the Denver Comic Con, i think
  to preemptively network me into that event's
  leadership/organization.
    - sooo ... definitely a cool guy. i remember conversations with
      him the week before.
    - the reason i say he's cool is bc he told me i might meet his
      "cousin" or something like that. this was the week before, when
      we were hanging out late at night at Leela in Denver.
      - around the same time, he quizzed me on the Canadian
        provinces. he didn't help me cheat, but it did prompt me to
        get these fresh in my mind. i got about 7 or 8 of them
      - when tatiana quizzed me on them, i got almost all of them,
        except saskatchewan and nunavut.
    - the first day of Hack4CO, b/w 12:00pm and 2:00pm on 5/31, before
      I got on the boulder bus, he called me on my phone (540)314-3704
      to remind me to shave and to bring my "K-OS" shirt

# Memories

- generally, the memories recovered most immediately in late 2/2015
  through 4/2015 were the ones with the greatest level of visual
  detail. i think these were mostly the real memories.

### Things take a turn for the worst

- it was like getting the keys to a brand new Tesla roadster, then
  finally checking the trunk in 6/2015 and finding all the dead bodies
  (*metaphorically speaking* of course)
  - that's when the memories about Trump started to seep in. Tat was
    "trying to stop Trump" .... even though there's no way that she
    knew about that in May or Junew 2013...
    - she referenced Trump's "Simpson's meme" where he had announced
      the run for the election in a fashion almost identical to the
      simpsons episode.
    - she asked me whether it was possible for that to happen....
      - i said yes, if you knew about that episode, it'd be easy to
        re-enact that scene and use it to spur people on.
      - this is a great example of something that's hard to predict in
        2013 and EASY to predict in 2015.
      - this particular

- from here on out -- about 6/2015 onwards -- the memories had low
  detail. much less likely to contain visual content. or the visual
  content was like it was rendered in low-quality
  - i realized there was definitely a conspiracy with national
    security concerns. i did not reach out to authorities because i
    realized that i was under some kind of surveillance and they
    already had access to all the information they needed -- THE WHOLE
    FUCKING TIME
  - i was emotionally unstable and they kept it that way, so that they
    could prod me on by engaging PERPS -- mostly at the ~liberal~
    colab late at night -- who would push my buttons to plant ideas,
    trigger ideas/memories, suggest specific locutionary phrases, etc.

#### Mr Robot Season 1, Episode 9 && the Smith Mountain Lake shooting

- i now believe this shooting involved mind control experimentation
  similar to what i was subjected to.
  - this was the most serious wakeup call for me. it was a shooting
    near me. five minutes after i saw the first tweets at 7:30


### Japanese Culture

#### Searching Through An Encyclopedia of Japanese Mon Sigils

- tat wanted me to find one that might familiar. "to see if they might
  identify a reincarnation..."
- it was probably on Sat 6/1/2013. we were sitting in the first table
  at Leela. There were other people and lots of heavy visual
  imagery. it was probably a real memory.
  - i *think* the memory involved [this
    book](https://www.amazon.co.jp/%E6%97%A5%E6%9C%AC%E5%AE%B6%E7%B4%8B%E5%A4%A7%E5%9B%B3%E9%91%91-%E6%9C%AC%E7%94%B0-%E7%B7%8F%E4%B8%80%E9%83%8E/dp/4340031011)
    -- 日本家紋大図鑑.

  - there's a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zwUp7tk_6s4) of
    someone flipping through this book on youtube

#### Familiarity with the story of the Red Ogre and Blue Ogre

- triggered when i watched an anime about traditional japanese folk
  tales.


# Definite Anachronisms of These Memories

- these anachronisms are always very, very difficult to identify. that
  is, for fake memories, they sure were VERY factually coherent

- (to fill in later)

### Boston Marathon Bombing

- she asked me when I thought the boston marathon bombing happened. I
  said "i donno, about a year or two ago" because, to me, that's when
  it felt like it had happened. However, we met on 5/31/2013 and
  6/1/2013. the boston bombing had happened at the end of 4/2013, just
  a few weeks before.

- this is relevant because we also allegedly had discussions about her
  potential role in the movie "Stronger" about the double-amputee
  victim of the Bostom Marathon, who helped investigators track down
  the perpetrator after the bombing occured.
  - my memories had extended discussions about this movie, that event
    and her potential role with Jake Gyllenhaal in the movie
    stronger. however, i don't believe the movie producers had a
    shortlist for actresses OR actors at that time.
  - it is interesting that she would be so tapped in to national
    security.
    - there is no way a movie would be produced about a national
      security event or terrorist bombing without being advised by DHS
      (american or its canadian counterpart)


- all of this shit has been so fake and no one can clarify it for me
  and **i am furious**. they prefer me to be completely confused about
  everything: how much damage has that caused, in and of itself?
  - what the fuck did these people do to my head? and why is the
    VICTIM being blamed for everything?
  - again, for what was apparently *pure delusion*, everything else
    was factually coherent and there were only ever a few anachronism.
    - like 4990/5000 facts i checked over a period of 18 months would
      always check out. they checked out so consistently, that i had
      given up on finding anachronisms.
  - again, all the "unbelievable" things that were supposed to be like
    "predictions" would be easy to predict in 2015, but nearly
    impossible to predict in 2013. most of the magic here was snuffed
    out.
  - at this point, this whole "tatiana" fabricated tattoo bullshit
    became to resemble more of a sympathetic "last meal" than anything
    else.
    - it was the one "nice" thing that my enemies were going to do for
      me. however, it wasn't nice at all. it was purely designed to
      drive me insane, corrupt any likelihood that my testimony would
      be accepted by anyone and present me with some bullshit fantasy
      before the government had me killed. it was really a "last meal"

- (TODO: describe more about this specific anachronism because, to me,
  this was the first "smoking gun" in my own memories)
  - it took me a very long time to realize it, which the kind of stuff
    that serendipitously saved my ass.
    - these people thought i had swallowed everything: hook, line and
      sinker.
    - so, by the time I realized it was fake, there was so much
      bullshit they had left me with. once i realized it was fake as
      fuck, that my whole life was fake and particularly, THAT I WAS
      RANGE BOUND, all their bullshit began to fall apart.

### The Bundy Standoff

- i specifically remember having a short, but brief conversation about
  the bundy standoff with Tatiana. This event didn't even happen
  until 2014. how was that even possible?

- tatiana essentially asked me "sooo, what do you think about the
  bundy standoff?" and i was like "well, fuck the federal government,
  but i hope no one gets hurt"
  - i didn't want to talk about it because she was clearly a liberal,
    it was clearly crossing a border into "questioning" me about
    things that would lead into a conversation where we would talk
    about whether or not I would advocate armed revolution or
    violence.
    - and i would never advocate such a thing.
