---
title: "Merits and Faults of Intellectual Property Endgame Scenarios"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- need to explore more about the merits/faults of final distributions
  of intellectual property holdings.
- this is the interesting idea here, but

The capacity of the human mind seems infinite. The capacity for our
culture and our economy to be improved by innovation is ultimately a
finite resource. This opportunity for innovative disruption of
existing products is finite without cyclic system dynamics. In terms
of actual progress, such cyclic dynamics are inefficient and wasteful.

- examples of cyclic dynamics

The economic distruption we see today is not.
- There are finitely many ideas to be discovered
    - while one can alter the sequence in which ideas are developed to
      increase the amount of flux in liquidity that results to
      optimize the economics of innovation, there is a final endgame
      state for the distribution of intellectual property

- there are many possibilities for the disposition of intellectual
  property in this endgame state, but which arrangements of patents,
  trademarks and IP are ideal? Such ideal states for the distribution
  of intellectual property would produce checks and balances that
  prevent malicious business tactics and detrimental economic
  conditions.

Completely uncontrolled development of intellectual property could
yield unbalanced situations that, in turn, yield economic situations
that are easily monopolized or potentially abused. When the system
reaches an endstate or "more final" states with less potential for
change, the set of actions that can be taken to correct the situation
are greatly limited. That is, there is less flexibility later than
when compared to the set of actions that can be taken to early on to
ensure a beneficial distribution of IP. So, it is wise to move forward
with the endgame state in mind, so that free-market economics can be
utilized to push the system towards more beneficial final states.

### [Weighing Pros and Cons of IP Distribution Endgame Scenarios](#weighing-pros-and-cons-of-ip-distribution-endgame-scenarios)

It's very possible that similar families or multinational holdings
companies might emerge to run things in the pre-Singularity economy of
the 21st century. They would manage equity and intellectual property
with regard to specific companies. This is actually the endgame for
the global economy, barring civilizational collapse or a breakdown of
international agreements. The seeds of this trend can be seen in
holdings companies today for patents, *some* of whom you might call
patent trolls.

There is some set of companies that own and license a ton of patents
out there. These companies and their holdings represent a distribution
of IP. There are some distributions of IP which would be very
beneficial or very detrimental for the welfare of the common person,
for safety in regard to technological evolution, for equitable "fair"
economic scenarios, etc. One needs to consider the present state of
the system, including who owns what, along with the technological
innovations which are likely to happen, the codification of those
innovations into patents, the changing value of past/present/future
patents, as well as future changes in the system. So this global
economic system can evolve towards one which is fair and beneficial or
one where greed and lust for power overtake such fragile notions of
peace and equitable prosperity.



### [Politicization of IP](#politicization-of-ip)

- this section underscores the problem with disruption tactics applied
  politically towards innovation: one side assumes protracted
  disenfranchisement...

- A recent wave of startups have been built on leveraging math for
  machine learning to revolutionize
  - This class of startups could hedge against the burden of
    inherently weak business models and inherently less integratable
    products by leveraging against the value of the intellectual
    property they developed.

In the years preceeding 2017, an otherwise promising gold rush of
innovative intellectual property was politicized in the name ensuring
the development, distribution and disposition of investment returns
fell safely into the hands of the left.

What out government seems to have mercilessly squashed in America is
curiosity and innovation driven by a lust for knowledge and
self-actualization.

=========

... (fix transition) And if so, then what are we doing to our economy
as we step foot into a 21st century!?  (I) cannot appropriately
emphasize how the 21st century economy will be based on intellectual
property and that, while it might be unfair for a segment of the
global economy to have an insurmountable advantage there, I'd rather
it be us if it's going to be anyone. That's because I know that
someone truly worthy of being a steward of IP like that would be
willing to share it with all others instead of using it to their own
advantage. While I trust some groups in the Western world with such
responsibility, I'm not so sure that some groups in the global economy
would execute that duty altruistically.

<a name="stewardship-of-future-ip-holdings" />

### [Stewardship of Future IP Holdings](#stewardship-of-future-ip-holdings)

And its not a joke: we're getting close to a world that might be
controlled by esoteric groups of corporate conglomerates who act as
gatekeepers of intellectual property for specific industries, where it
would be impossible to advance in some technology without their
blessing. Depending on how they leverage influence like that, such a
world could be better off for it or certainly doomed, were greedy
self-interest to delude whoever holds the keys to genomic science or
nano science.

This isn't actually a novel idea. Nope, it's a *novel* idea.
Literally, as in William Gibson's brilliant Neuromancer -- one of the
best books I've ever read whence the Matrix was a major departure --
the Tessier-Ashpool family maintains a monopoly over intellectual
property related to artifical intelligence. I don't think I'm throwing
out spoilers here. This family has mostly withdrawn from society and
their duty is an unwavering, merciless suppression of any possibility
rogue AI tech might emerge and take root in the world. That's a
nightmare scenerio in many sci-fi books.

This family runs the "Turing Registry" which has it's own secret
police, kinda. Think Rothschilds, but for AI instead of banking. In
this world, if you ever came close to someone connected to the
Tessier-Ashpools, it's either because you're very fortunate and
well-respected or because you should disappear without telling anyone
and spend the rest of your life in a secret underground bunker, amidst
isolated seclusion. They just don't play and, my memory fails me
because I read Neuromancer three years ago and I have an overactive
imagination, but they're not exactly evil for it. They don't care if
you didn't mean to and it ain't personal, but it gets personal. This
family of characters simply does not want the wrong things to happen
with regard to AI & if you get close to that, they'll find you. Like
Hollywood:

> Don't worry, don't call us, we'll call you. The end.

<a name="" />

<a name="so-youre-telling-me" />

### [So, You're Telling Me...](#so-youre-telling-me)

TODO: 3rd world meme

So when people say "Oh he's just full of excuses and never built
anything himself" or "He's not really that smart/intelligent" or "He
thinks he knows how to run a company, but he has no idea what he's
doing" or "He'll never amount to anything" ... For those detractors, I
definitely accept that many of your critiques contain more truth than
I'd like. If you're statement is true, thank you for your criticism. I
hope you mention it to me, instead of just others. If the intent of
your criticism is positive, again, thank you. I'd love to hear what
you have to say. How am I supposed to progress if I don't get
feedback. However, if your intent is negative or you're just trying to
psyche me out, then please go fuck yourself. Keep in mind that I
didn't get an education and the government has a unathorized budget
with my name on it. And, in spite of that, I managed to not succumb to
their projected delusion, constant gaslighting, subversion/coercion of
my friends and family, or their constant distractions. In spite of all
that, I never gave up on myself or stopped believing in myself.

I have a lot to learn and maybe I'll never experience victory, but why
would these people ever prevent me from attempting business or
science, unless ... could it be that they are terrified of any
success? **I just discussed personal ideas on the endgame of the
distribution of intellectual property in the 21st economy.** Who the
fuck says that?! Who thinks about that?

Furthermore, my intentions were always positive. If my intentions
weren't positive, would I have ever thought about how alternate
distributions of intellectual property might impact mankind? Nope. I
would be much busier making money, counting money, thinking about how
to make more money or trying to figure out how to spend it. I only
wanted wealth because I saw it as a way and means to empower real
change for the benefit of others. Not just myself. Though I can't lie,
I did like the idea of fondue parties, champagne, yachts, private
islands and disposable helicopters.  Actually, today, all of that
materialistic stuff represents a waste of thought, time and energy. I
don't want it.

<a name="economic-opportunity-in-the-2020s" />

# [Economic Opportunity in the 2020's](#economic-opportunity-in-the-2020s)

A depressing, but fundamental difference between this decade's novel
economic opportunities and those of the 2020's is that they are
profoundly less accessible for the common person. This is an emergent
aspect of today's economic reality that I have been well aware of
since 2013. I realized that the wave of startups was a gold rush, but
essentially a fad. It is a gold rush where the gold is intellectual
property and cultivated market share, but once the IP is gone, it's
gone! When considering the nature of economic opportunities over the
next few decades, once these new innovative companies have established
dominant market share, it will be nearly impossible to disrupt.

So, yes, I really was willing to risk it all, knowing that I would
likely make almost nothing if I failed because I understood that the
risk vs. payoff and barriers to entry for new businesses in the 2010's
profoundly departs from that of the 2020's. So then, accepting the
opportunity cost of doing nothing was unacceptable to me, even if it
cost me everything. There are still economic opportunities of course,
but they are exponentially less accessible to the common person. The
exceptions to this will be few and far between, but the barriers to
entry are technically and financially prohibitive for most people. You
will either need millions in VC funding to invest or an IQ of 150 or
above and rigorous academic performance to stay on top.

The unicorns are dying, folks. Keep your fingers crossed, but Facebook
was a fluke.

<a name="machine-learning-for-x" />

### [Machine Learning for X](#machine-learning-for-x)

Disrupting industry X with some new machine learning technology became
available in the late 2010's primarily because of three factors.

#### The Availability and Computational Capacity of the Cloud

#### The ability for businesses to interconnect data streams over the well-established architecture of the internet

#### Awareness & Understanding of Machine Learning Techniques

  - by the time we reach the 2020's, nearly all of the machine
    learning opportunities will be gone.
  - What happens to most machine learning startups?
    - Acquisition for intellectual property.
    - I knew this in 2013 and it should be obvious to pretty much
      everyone.

#### Why is this Less Accessible?

It requires a profound understanding of statistical methods, as well
as the computational limits to their application. New opportunites
will emerge upon the introduction of novel computing fabric.
i.e. quantum computing, application-specific processor architecture,
methods of shared memory for CPU/GPU, etc.

To capture these opportunites you have to know everything about
everything: statistical methods, the specific application, the
applicability & availability of upcoming innovative architectures,
market viability and competition, competing business models, the state
of intellectual property distribution, etc. It requires mastery of
advanced mathematics on top of a rigorous understanding of the
specific machine learning application, in combination with business,
legal, networking and financial skills.

That's just the technical baseline for opportunities machine learning.
All of that applies, and more, for the opportunities in finance,
materials science and biotech. Further, there is more risk on average,
with assuredly less payoff.

<a name="vr-for-x" />

### [VR for X](#vr-for-x)

Of course, there's always VR and AR, right? Isn't VR just another UI
platform where Snapchats and Facebooks of yesteryear will be reborn
again? Nope. What's more valuable:

#### Facebook's technology or Facebook's Content Distribution Platform?

#### Facebook's Content Delivery or Facebook's Existing Social Media Market Share?

Why is facebook's market share so valuable? Because *people* have to
*learn* to use technology. They have to adapt to it. They are going to
gravitate towards what *feels* similar. Further, the market
penetration requirements for VR are depressing. It takes time for that
hardware to be pushed out, therefore Facebook is far more likely to
extend it's current content distribution platform than another
sudden-but-extremely-innovative product is to disrupt it.

For VR and VR Apps, *timing*, hardware market share, and OS
universiality are everything. Opportunities for innovation are stifled
because society will take longer to grow comfortable with innovative
UI possibilities and because OS universiality is a major software
challenge for both platform & software developers. What is OS
universiality? It is the ability for any VR OS/software to trivially
extend itself with almost any hardware, without overly restrictive
configuration.

There are major business challenges inherent in VR/AR, which I discuss
at length in
[this video series from 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hBAINyOzXVY&index=5&list=PLEJEA9mYfeKjEbBxmiHEHpLcqnx5DIrYr).
If software developers must choose between one VR platform or another,
they will choose neither and look for the minimally viable platform:
mobile. If software developers must choose between developing for
hardware extensions, like IR/UV sensors, and growing their software's
marketability, they will choose the minimally viable platform. The
only way to solve this is to develop a framework for VR operating
system extensions that enables the extension of types of hardware
devices *seemlessly*, so that application developers can augment their
apps with hardware, if it's available. This technical challenge is
almost insurmountable.

- if consumers become frustrated with constantly shifting hardware
  without engaging software, they will begin to perceive the whole
  thing as a fad. If Nietzsche were writing this, he'd probably call
  this VR's "Danger of Dangers."

  - [Nintendo License Seal]()



These tech giants already exist. They're going to compel you to
integrate their API's anyways. They already have a head start. Because
of the slow evolution in user behavior, the raw expense of VR hardware
and low hardware penetration rates, tech giants will retain
control. Agility and innovation only get you so far and, here, the
cost and risk to compete are prohibitive.


### [Content for VR](#content-for-vr)

  - marketing expenditures
  - market saturation


#### Why is this Less Accessible?

- technical challenges (geometry, etc) and the overall level of work
- content, content, content and more content
  - about anything you can develop requires just as much art and
    content as any video game

<a name="financial-applications" />

### Financial Applications

- trading algorithms
  - also similarly expanded by novel developments in computing.
  - it would seem generally true -- and should be just as obvious as
    it has been for decades -- that all major advances in technology
    begin with advances in computation.

#### Why is this Less Accessible?

  - complexity in regulation

### Materials Science Fabrication

- why isn't this accesible for the common person?


#### Why is this Less Accessible?

- requires combinations of IP to be licensed

### Biotech & Medical

#### Why is this Less Accessible?

- academic institutions control development of IP

- overregulation of medical processes and devices

===========================

# Concept of "Supply" of Ideas

- since ideas (especially the industrious ones) have a graph
  representation that lends to

# Automated Patent Mining

- not exactly new: the other silk road guy

- quantifying remaining progress of patentable space of ideas
  - gauge the "surface" of patents being filed for various fields
    - obviously, this is more complicated than it sounds
  - if you imagine this surface as eroding away from some volume, with
    the rate of erosion as a metaphor for patents being filed, then if
    the volume of patentable space is finite, we should be able to
    anticipate an endpoint.
  - the math behind this is going to be pretty tough and not at all
    accurate. it should instead be viewed as an analytical
    approximation which is only useful in its ability to understand
    the rate of progress today in specific fields

- semantic combinator applied to preprocessed data on related patents,
  expanded into enumerated 1-types and 2-types via type theory
  - so, return a set of types where 1 to n holes have been inserted
    into the type permuting into the type representing some patent or
    component of a patent
    - then permute the positions of the "holes"
    - recombinate the enumerated additional ideas, combining them
      together to form evaluatable formulations of ideas that can be
      patented
  - in order for this to work, the patents need to be expressed as
    graphs of ideas which are refined via semantic processing of the
    text of the patents.
    - the graphs are easier to manipulate/merge/combinate via type
      theory than semantic data

-


- link to
  [American Limits on Freedom of Speech Include Intelligence](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-08-22-american-limits-on-freedom-of-speech-include-intelligence.html)
  - where to link to this?

- That is, unless you found yourself blessed by the government to
  proceed with some innovative idea without a COINTELPRO-style
  disruption campaign, powered by surveillance.
  - (blurb about unquestioning obedience, self-censorship, complicitness
    with NSA surveillance, etc)
- If you're the target of such an operation involving surveillance,
  you'd be lucky to avoid having every ounce of innovation extracted
  by the people watching you.
- Apparently, our government has been pruning undesireable
  entrepreneurs and micromanaging technological innovation, but to
  what ends? Is it to ensure that liberals and leftists are in control
  of new money? Ethics aside, that would be an effective tactic from a
  heartlessly utilitarian standpoint. It'd be effective unless you got
  caught doing it, of course.
  - (remove) If Tat and I actually talked, I have memories about this
    exact topic, which I suggested as a kind of ethical test.
    - I told her ensuring control/oversight over innovation of Silicon
      Valley would be an effective means of ensuring your side has
      more resources later, essentially.
    - I was trying to test my hypothesis: was the left methodically
      pushing conservatives out of work and depriving them of
      resources. This is basically what was happening with the IRS and
      Lois Lerner and what I had felt happened in my own life.
    - yeh, it's chicanery. who the fuck cares. look at what these
      people were doing. i wanted to prove it without a doubt, in case
      I was in the middle of getting fucked in the ass.
