---
title: "Setup by Organized Crime or Police?"
---

it's so horrible what happened to Aaron Swartz. the shadowy powers
that be robbed him of everything at the end. he lost all the money
he'd made to legal expenses fighting some bogus bullshit. they were
going to charge him with felonies and throw him in jail for decades,
all to rob him of the chance he'd have to build/exercise power for
change.

anyways, i'm no aaron swartz, but two days before christmas, i almost
went down in a setup where 5+ options were planned to guarantee
redundancy -- implying that yet again, i'd be painted as the opposite
of everything i am when I've experienced nothing but torment 4 my
authenticity.

i've already been robbed of all social/financial resources and
tormented in a sociophysical prison for years. i couldn't even afford
the drugs they tried to sell me, so they had to "give" them to me --
two hours before i walked 150 yards down the street with a friend,
where he threw me at cops. he had also tried to plant baggies with
residue at my house along with stolen goods and boxcutters. he
miraculously got away by hiding in a tunnel -- even though it was
fairly conspicuous -- while i threw myself at the cops to avoid him
being arrested, since i was lucky enough to have left everything he
gave me at home.

i can conclusively prove that he knew what we were walking into --
with plenty of circumstantial information on top. i don't believe it
was the police, but there is no way he pulled this off by himself. it
took over a month and was ... impressive. he stole my iphone and had
lied about not having a phone -- he had a burner. he signaled over
specific channels to avoid leaving a trace. and an hour or so before
we left, he said on the phone to his sister "I'm bringing in
#DonaldTrump." like WTF, do i look like an orange guy living in a
white house?

of course, there is no one here for me. i have minimal
social/financial resources. my family was giving me bad advice and
telling me i didn't need to talk to a lawyer. the detectives kept
asking me about a false name. he had a wallet with someone else's ID
that he showed me and I think he dropped it at the scene. i called the
police station and they had only one record on file with my name on it
and were investigating NONE with his name on it. i told them i had
more information and haven't heard anything from him. i don't have
access to my email, since i had two-factor on my iphone. this seems
tactically relevant to slowing down resolution of the situation after
the fact by expanding the length of communication feedback loop --
definitely against my favor.

anyways, i'm posting on here bc i just finished watching a documentary
about #AaronSwartz. my back is against the wall and, like always, i'm
socially isolated in perpetuity to minimize the possibility of
information leaking out about my situation that would need to be
stamped out later.

i ended up blowing up the situation on social media, since i'm backed
against the corner, so now the situation is 100x worse for people
involved, depending on which of my interpretations are correct. i feel
horrible about this -- depending on who my old "friend" was working
with or whether the local police were in on it, things could get
pretty bad very fast.

and, as usual, there is no one in my life to listen. i have no money
and no social options. all of this restricts my location and any
options at my disposal, making me incredibly easy to predict, like a
chess player with two pieces.
